[music]
Next year you have the hallmarks of
potentially pretty exciting year.
>> Balance portfolios make a lot of sense
heading into 2026. Setting this up for a
year where you're going [music] to see a
lot of churning but have moderate
returns. We see a huge amount of
appreciation across the AI names.
There's a question of which ones and how
long can that run for. Respect the trend
[music]
but don't ignore the risks as we go into
2026. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
>> Happy holidays. Happy New Year. Good
morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance on this holiday Monday,
closing out another year of double digit
returns. Stocks stalling out a bit to
start the final week [music] of 2025.
Gold and silver losing a bit of luster
after an unprecedented run. Investors
casting doubt on the depth of the
debasement trade [music] and pressure
for peace between Russia and Ukraine
resulting in helpful rhetoric but few
definitive resolutions. Good morning.
John is out on paternity leave and Maria
is on holiday. We are playing tag this
month but we got lucky today and joining
us is Matt Miller, co-host of Open
Interest. Matt, thank you so much for
being here. What a ride it's been. It
seems like this is a market that is
scrolling [music] struggling to get to
some sort of final finish that can push
to new highs. Yeah, absolutely. I mean,
the Santa Claus rally, right? Last week
felt like uh it was in full swing, but
actually the Santa Claus rally is only
the last officially the last five
[music] trading days of December. So,
we've only seen two so far and the first
two of January according to Yale Hirs
from the stock traders almanac. So,
we're up a little bit in the first two
days of that, but I think investors
still have high hopes for the next five.
[music] Thank you for the technical
analysis of Santa Claus Rally because
ultimately that is what we're going to
be looking for is some sort of uh
culmination to a year of another double
digits, the third straight one for both
the S&P and the NASDAQ this morning
[music] just failing to really uh pick
up steam right now. You are seeing
slight declines across the board, but
betting on that broadening out trade.
This to me is interesting. Russell 2000
futures almost flat even though S&P
futures are down about a quarter of a
percent. 10-year yields lower 4.1%.
the idea of how much we've gained. It's
actually been Matt the best year for
bonds going back to 2017. So for all the
people talking about the debasement
trade in US treasuries, we really
haven't seen that with this bet that
next year we will get a Fed [music] that
is accommodative.
>> Yeah, it's pretty impressive. I I often
look at the chart from the beginning of
the cutting cycle. So we're down I think
175 basis points [music] in the Fed
funds rate from September of 24. And yet
uh the 10-year yield itself is actually
up about 50 basis points. So if you
bring it out, obviously you can
cherrypick depending on whatever dates
you pick, but if you bring it out to the
beginning of the Fed cutting cycle, it
hasn't helped [music] much in terms of
yield,
>> which really raises a question next year
about what's going to matter most, the
Fed or the 10-year. Meanwhile, a big
question around the debasement trade,
and you have seen that silver and gold
uh issue kind of percolate after going
parabolic. you suddenly saw this real
removal from that froth down about 5% uh
on intraday trading of silver. There is
a question about the debasement and yet
the dollar has pretty much traded
[music] sideways since liberation day.
Coming up this week, what we have is not
[music] a stocked plate. What we are
looking at is jobless claims on
Wednesday before that we get Fed meeting
minutes. Get some housing data, but
otherwise pretty light on that. Also a
focus very much in [music] Washington DC
and we will be getting more on Ukraine
and Russia and a [music] possible piece
there. Coming up this hour, Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth with stocks
near record highs. Bloomberg Skyler
Montgomery Koig with the dollar on
course for its weakest year since 2017.
Plus our conversation with JetBlue CEO
Joanna Gerity on the airlines outlook
for 2026 and beyond. We begin this hour
with stocks stalling out after
approaching new record highs. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth writing, "The
biggest question for 2026 is whether or
not everything else can strike back and
deliver the earnings growth that is
necessary to unseat the narrow MAG7
leadership next year." Cameron, I am so
pleased to say, joins us now. Cameron,
thank you so much for being with us and
happy holidays. Uh, great to see you.
This broadening out trade and the real
question behind it, when will we get the
data and the information to understand
whether it really is valid? It really is
a show me story in 2026 as to whether or
not the equal weight S&P 500 can deliver
on what are some pretty high
expectations for earnings growth next
year. If you look over the last 3 years,
you've been in an environment where the
largest parts of the market have driven
the vast majority of the earnings
growth, which is why you've had the vast
majority of returns come from these mag
seven names. But that's expected to
narrow, not quite flip, but narrow in
2026. So you can see it in something
like the equal weight S&P 500 having
expectations for revenue growth to
accelerate from 1.5% in 25 up to 5% in
2026. So a lot is riding on this idea of
EPS delivering. And of course that will
be a show me story as we move through
the year to see if there is upside to
those numbers or if yet again we'll be
in an environment where mag 7 gets
revised higher and equal weight gets
revised lower. So you add to this story
something that happened last week. There
actually was a big piece of news last
week. Nvidia had this agreement with
Grock, which is a chip designer, some
$20 billion valuation of this company,
doubling it over the past couple of
months, and raising questions about the
dominance of Nvidia, but also whether
there is a shift in narrative around the
AI story to one that is more efficient,
more useful, and cheaper for some of the
end users.
I think no better way encapsulates this
idea of potentially a narrative shift is
looking at some of the nonprofitable AI
related names. They of course were
leaders coming out of the April lows and
saw an absolute frenzy as we moved into
the fall with September and October
rallies that were truly eyewatering. But
what's been fascinating is that they
have not participated in this latest
move higher. If you look at something
like the Goldman Sachs nonprofitable
tech index or look at something like
ARC, those indices have not made new
highs which just suggests that maybe
just maybe there's some rationality
entering into this market which we would
welcome and see as a good thing because
that kind of rally in unsustainable
unprofitable names is not something that
we would see as healthy for the market.
>> What do you expect from uh M&A in I mean
not just the mag seven but in AI? I was
pretty stunned after seeing that Grock
deal when I looked on the uh FA function
uh on the Bloomberg terminal to see free
cash flow at Nvidia is just gone
parabolic right last year it was 27
billion this year it's 60 billion next
year it's expected to be 95 billion I
mean they are um just raking in cash and
are able to deploy 20 30 40 billion
without even thinking about it
>> yeah I think it's a really good question
and it raises the question of where we
sit in the semiconductor cycle because
we do know that at the end of the day
semiconductors are a cyclical business.
And if you go back to prior cycles, you
typically do see earnings grow by 100
120% plus in upcycles, then of course
you do hit an inevitable down cycle. And
we're now in an environment, if you look
at the overall stocks index, that
earnings are up about 150% off of the
late 2022 lows, which just suggests that
possibly we are closer to the end of
this semicycle than we are to the
beginning. But I think it's also very
arguable that this semicycle will go
further and last longer than prior ones
simply because of the secular tailwinds
of something like AI. But it's important
to remember that it's always this time
is different with cyclical areas. If you
remember last time it was the internet
of things and we were putting chips in
everything and that's why we weren't
going to have semiclescles anymore. I
think the the real question will be is
how much further can this go and is that
free cash flow that Nvidia is generating
today something that we can extrapolate
into perpetuity? Possibly not.
>> What happened Cameron to the uh the
terror of liberation day? I mean, the
economic uncertainty that we were all
ringing our hands about, right? These
tariffs that admittedly have been muted
a bit by the drop in the dollar almost
10% year to date. Um, is that is any of
that a concern next year or have we
realized that it's actually no big deal?
>> I think that if we were to see the
tariffs as a concern, it's really
captured in this conflicting kind of
headline. We got a headline over the
weekend saying that bankruptcies are at
their highest levels since 2010. And
then you pull up corporate profits and
overall you in the US and they're at new
highs. And so this suggests that tariffs
are hitting things like smaller
businesses harder. They're also hitting
smaller consumers harder who have a
higher propensity to spend of of their
overall incomes. So when you put that
together, it really encapsulates this
idea that tariffs exacerbate the
K-shaped economy. They hurt lower income
consumers. They hurt smaller businesses
much more than they hurt higher
business, larger businesses and higher
income consumers. I just wonder Cameron
how long you can see this rally continue
unless you get participation that does
broaden out. This idea that you can see
an economy that's growing at the fastest
pace in two years on headline GDP. Yes,
it's noisy, but a lot of its data
centers, it's not actually the mom and
pop stores that are declaring
bankruptcy.
The one thing that does give us a little
bit of soloulless in thinking about this
broadening out is contrasting where we
are today in breadth measures versus
where we were last year. Last year at
this time, you only had about 20% of
names trading above their 50-day moving
average. It was an incredibly narrow
market which we thought made it more
fragile. If you look today, that stat is
at 64%. So it doesn't necessarily mean
that we are immune to everything but it
is encouraging that we are seeing
broader participation in the rally that
it's not resting on just a small handful
of names. So using the banks as example
if the economy was really falling off a
cliff we don't think that we would be
seeing bank earnings revised higher
nearly as much as they are and banks
hitting new all-time highs. Some of that
rally might be a little bit extended,
but I think it's important to note that
there are still some signs that
cyclicality is being well bid in the
equity market which just give us a
little bit more comfort that things
aren't as extend or maybe broadening out
in a better way.
>> Cameron Dawson with sun pouring in from
a lovely place wherever you are. Uh we
will be sticking with you, you will be
sticking with us of New Edge Wealth.
Matt, you talked about the Gro deal with
Nvidia and I found this just
fascinating. uh what we saw last week on
Wednesday night. It was almost like
trying to be buried, right? That Nvidia
would enter into a non-exclusive
licensing deal and hire most of Grock's
employees. Grock is a language
processing uh type of outfit. And this
idea that they are trying to get more
competitive with the likes of Google and
their chips in a way that could avoid
some sort of antirust claw, it just
highlights how dominant they are with
the cash that you were talking about.
Yeah, I think it's I think it it was a
really fascinating deal. The timing um
was an interesting part of it um because
it's largely gone unnoticed, right? Um
and yet it was a huge $20 billion deal.
The thing is they just have so much free
cash flow in fiscal 27 they're looking
at 150 estimates are for $150 billion.
So, you see a lot of these big AI
companies, including Open AI, doing
deals quickly, um, reportedly without
many lawyers or bankers and spending a
ton of money because they want to take
advantage of the valuations and the cash
they're getting right now
>> and they can get the dominance of the
field given the fact that they have that
endless cash and they're doing it to try
to solidify some of the potential
competitive threats. We'll kind of parse
through this throughout the show because
I do think just because they bury it
doesn't mean that we have to bury it.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your bloomer brief with Yahira on endra.
>> Good morning, Lisa. President Donald
Trump says Ukraine and Russia are quote
closer than ever before to a peace deal,
but [music] said it might take a few
weeks to get it done. Ukraine's
president Vladimir Zalinski says the
[music] peace framework is 90% agreed
and that US Ukraine security guarantees
are 100% agreed, but major sticking
points [music] remain, including the
future of Ukraine's Donbass region.
Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu meeting with US
President Donald Trump at Mara Lago
today to discuss issues in the Middle
East, including Gaza and Iran. The
meeting comes as tensions between the
two leaders have increased, [music] with
Trump having previously warned Israel
against taking actions that could
undermine his [music] peace efforts and
Netanyahu facing political pressure at
home to take a tougher a tough stance on
Gaza and Hamas. and China kicking off
kicking off maneuvers around Taiwan,
including live fire drills near [music]
the Taiwan Strait. The move comes after
the US announced the major weapons
[music] package for the self-run
democracy. Taiwan's presidential office
called the drills a serious threat to
peace [music] and stability. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you so
much. Yahra, up next, closer than ever
for Ukraine.
>> I really believe we're probably, Mr.
president closer than by far closer than
ever before with both parties.
>> 20 point peace plan 90% agreed and US
Ukraine [music] security guarantees 100%
agreed. Prosperity plan being finalized.
>> We've got more on that just coming up
next. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
with some of the details from New York.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back. What we are seeing this
morning is stocks trying to get back to
that fervor that Santa Claus rally that
Matt was just explaining does consist
of. Now, this is the race into year end.
It is not continuing with some of the
fervor that usually happens at this time
of year. Down about a quarter of a
percent for S&P futures. But
interestingly, Russell 2000 futures
unchanged. And this to me, Matt, is
really the question. Can you get that
broadening out [music] that so many
people are counting on to really lead
the market higher in 2026? And if you
can't, is it still sustainable?
>> Yeah, actually the small caps though
have done really well over the last
couple of months in um hopes that the
Fed would continue to cut. Right.
They're helped the most. I think 40% of
the Russell 2000 [music] is unprofitable
or some giant figure like that. So they
really need those rate cuts [music] and
that's where the Fed really matters
going into 26.
>> So let's take a look 10 and 30s. What
you have seen is a rally. You've seen
the best year for treasuries wholesale
going back to 2017. Although Mack can
point out that at the beginning of the
cutting cycle [music] maybe it sort of
fudges exactly where we've been.
Nonetheless, you are seeing that 2-year
yield pegged at 3.5% or just below
3.47%. [music]
Uh the 30-year yield has hovered though
around that 4.8%. [music] To your point,
Matt, there is a feeling that just
cutting on the front end is not going to
help the long end, especially with
[music] ongoing questions around who the
buyer base is going to be next year for
treasuries.
>> Yeah, you know, it's interesting.
Cameron Dawson mentioned that story that
I think more than 700 companies have
filed for bankruptcy this year.
>> [music]
>> And um they listed uh the reasons
inflation was number one but rates were
number two before tariffs. I thought
that was really interesting. So [music]
if rates continue to come down that'll
be really helpful obviously to the
smaller businesses that have gone
bankrupt in this environment. [music]
>> Yeah. Meanwhile in the metal space and
this has been sort of the ongoing
debasement trade and a question around
whether it truly is that. You had seen
prices go parabolic in silver. Truly
just shocking gains particularly over
the past week and a half. Suddenly,
you're seeing a little bit of froth
coming off of that. Down about 5%, 4.8%
now in pre-market trading. But a
question here about whether this is real
or whether this is speculation, and it
comes in the heels of a real question
that's been bleeding out in the gold
market throughout the bulk of this year.
>> Yeah. Um whether or not this is the
debasement trade was the subject of
conversation in uh last week's shows
that I was uh hosting because you
haven't seen the dollar really fall that
much. I mean it's like 8% year to date
right from the peak it's not even 12%.
But the thing is um maybe currencies
around the world are also coming down to
some extent. Um so the question is
what's driving gold and precious metals
higher. Silver obviously has industrial
uses so it's a different story but the
rally in gold has been eye popping as
well right 70 80% year to date.
>> Yeah. And some people speculating it
could continue based on central bank
buying. This really has to do with the
geopolitics of the moment which seemed
to be in focus certainly in Washington
DC under surveillance this morning
closer than ever for Ukraine.
>> I really believe we're probably Mr.
President closer than by far closer than
ever before with both parties.
>> If it went really well, you know, maybe
a few weeks and if it went poorly longer
and if it went really poorly, it's not
going to happen.
>> 20 point peace plan 90% agreed and US
Ukraine security guarantees 100% agreed.
US, Europe, Ukraine security guarantees
almost agreed. Military dimension 100%
agreed. Prosperity plan being finalized.
Here's the latest. President Trump and
Ukraine's President Zilinsky hailing
major progress made over the weekend
toward a potential peace deal with
Russia. However, talks failing to
produce a major breakthrough.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now.
Tyler, thank you so much for being with
us. So, do we have any sense of what the
progress really was that was made over
the weekend?
you. Hey Lisa, good morning. Well, at
this point we saw both sides really tout
that there is optimism here, right? We
know what the big sticking point still
remain to be. President Trump yesterday
saying that the thorniest issue on the
table is of course the future of any
potential land concessions as he's
previously suggested that Ukraine is
going to have to give up territory in
the eastern Donbos region as part of any
future deal. It is our understanding
that there has been an agreement reached
in the draft proposal that would include
a referendum vote on what happens to
that eastern region. But Ukraine needs
to see some critical conditions met
first including that Russia would
withdraw its troops. The other big part
of course security guarantees. What are
those going to look like? Both sides
again hailing progress as it is our
understanding and we reported earlier
this month that the US has put on the
table something that could mirror NATO's
article 5 mutual defense clause. We are
now learning this morning that Zalinsky
did ask President Trump directly
yesterday at Mara Lago for those
guarantees to extend to 30 or 50 years.
Now, this White House has repeatedly
said that responsibility is really going
to fall on our European allies, which is
why it's important and notable that the
pair of leaders did have a call with
European leaders yesterday after they
met face to face. But to your question,
Lisa, one of the biggest questions here
is what is Russia really going to agree
to? That is of course what we've seen
when it comes to engagement on the
Ukrainian side. But in his call
yesterday with Vladimir Putin, President
Trump said that Russia is still not
interested in a ceasefire before any
potential peace deal. And we've heard
openly from Russian officials that there
are some parts of this now 20point plan
that are non-starters, including the
proposed size of Ukraine's post-war
military. I will say in one potential
sign of progress, we did hear from the
Kremlin that they have agreed to create
two working groups. That was a proposal
put forward by the US and those are the
people that are going to run points to
continue negotiations between the three
countries.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth
still with us. And Cameron, how much do
you count on some of the rhetoric that
we've heard over the weekend as
something concrete that is uh you know,
just since this is what we do, tradable
in the sense that this could be the
emergence from a war state in Europe?
Well, we continue to just watch one
thing, which is oil prices and gasoline
prices as far as how much a war in
Europe matters for US markets and US
earnings. And we continue to be in an
environment where gasoline prices are
falling. It's pretty incredible. Over
the last month or so, we've seen 30
cents off the daily national average
gasoline price come out. We're now at
$2.80. Isn't that such a far cry from
the high of $5 that we reached in the
aftermath of the initial invasion of
Ukraine by Russia? So, as long as you
are in an environment where those energy
prices remain contained, it's likely
something that the overall market, at
least in the US, continues to look the
other way and not see it as a major
driver of impacting returns.
>> And there's been no impact uh even
though we talk about Venezuela a lot.
Obviously, it's important for foreign
policy and um potentially, you know,
human rights. Um there's been zero
impact really on uh oil, right? We we
see Brent just creeping above $60, but
not much more
>> and maybe just diesel prices. That would
be the one thing to watch with Venezuela
because they have heavy sour crude,
which is very important for diesel uh uh
production. And so that's been a market
that has been a little bit tighter than
what we see in just normal gasoline
prices. And so as we as we think about
the impact of energy prices, that is a
major wild card for 2026. Over the last
3 years, we cannot underappreciate how
important falling energy prices has
been, not just for headline CPI, but
also for the US consumer. It's
effectively been a tax cut for us
consumers. So each and every month we've
been in an environment where year
gasoline prices have been falling. This
is a boon for us consumers and if it if
it were to turn in the other direction
that could certainly be a headwind for
consumption as well as headline CPI for
2026 it's a wild card. It's not our base
case because of some of these dynamics
of over supply but it's certainly not
something that we should ignore. How
much is that outweighed, Cameron, by um
the runup in electricity prices that the
consumer faces, sometimes two 100% of
what it was a year ago? The runup in
natural gas prices that the consumer
faces because that's the dominant power
source used for data centers. I mean, AI
is pushing up energy across the spectrum
other than oil. And certainly and we're
seeing it in elections as well as coming
into uh top of mind for consumers. And
so just as they're potentially getting
this tax cut on the pump side of things
with cars, you're seeing that pressure
in overall electricity prices. And
there's a great argument that this is
what creates the perception of higher
inflation than what we might get in
overall statistics because of the
dynamic of frequency bias. meaning that
you go and fill up your car more
frequently. You pay your your energy
bill at your house more frequently. So
you feel those prices going up a lot
more than you feel the prices going down
of certain goods that you bet that you
buy less frequently. Which is one of the
reasons why we continue to see this high
levels of readings and things like
University of Michigan surveys on
outlooks for inflation. Even though when
you contrast that to what the bond
market is saying, the bond market
continues to be very optimistic that
inflation will fall back down towards
the Fed's target with 5year 5-year
forward inflation break evens and swaps
looking at just about 2.4%.
So there is a contrast there into the
inflation we feel as consumers and then
the inflation that is perceived or
expected by bond markets.
>> Spoken like someone who truly has
traveled this season. and Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Well, thank you so much for
being with us and happy holidays and
happy new year. Coming up, my
conversation with JetBlue CEO Joanna
Gity on how the airline is gearing up
for a key year ahead. Plus, Guy Johnson
with your morning movers. Silver pulling
back after that record rally. Meanwhile,
copper surging to new record highs from
New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good [music] morning,
>> [music]
>> It's supposed to be that Santa Claus
rally time and we're not feeling it at
least right now. [music] But still, when
you take a look at S&P futures, you can
see pushing toward all-time highs even
though you are down about a quarter of a
percent. Matt, how far are we away from
that 7,000 mark? You've been doing
calculations over there,
but it looks to me like 1% away from
7,000 in the cash trade cuz we're at
6930.
>> Yeah, this has been another doubledigit
year. It's been more than 20% the
previous two years. Right now, we're up
some 18 19% on the NASDAQ. You're up 22%
year to date with people expecting more
to come next year, which is sort of the
interesting aspect of this. The euro
just losing a little bit of luster
versus the dollar still around that
mark where it's been hovering for the
past couple of trading [music] sessions.
A bit into treasuries down two basis
points ahead of the Fed meeting minutes
that we get later this week 4.11%
and copper copper up almost 2%. It was
up 5% earlier in the session surging uh
ever higher. Why I guess is the
question. Is it physical demand? Is it
speculation? Is a little bit of
everything? A lot of people looking to
Dr. copper from the signals.
>> Yeah, to me copper is almost more
fascinating than silver, right? Precious
metals make sense as a safe haven if
you're worried about any number of
things. Um, but like silver, copper uh
has industrial [music] uses even more
arguably. And normally you see copper
surge when giant economies like China
are building ghost cities. They're not
doing that right now. I guess we're
building data centers, but I wonder what
people are using it for.
>> The re-industrialization of the world.
Are we seeing it in the price of copper
or is it speculation about the
industrialization of the world? 3 hours
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with Guy Johnson. Guy,
>> one of the reasons why copper might be
higher is because people are building a
lot of data centers. Uh, and that's
evidenced in the stories we're watching
this morning. Lisa, let's start with the
first one. Digital Bridge Group. So,
this is a private equity company. Now,
remember a few weeks ago, SoftBank sold
out of its Nvidia position. Apparently,
there were tears. [music] Now we're
starting to see evidence maybe of how
that money is going to be deployed. This
is a private equity company. It's based
out of Boker. It's based out of New
York. It's based out of LA. It invests
in data centers. Uh and this is why
SoftBank is interested in it. The stock
is up by 33, let's call it 33, 34%
pre-market. Uh advanced talks for
SoftBank to buy this company. Now, it
has bought private equity companies in
the past. Hasn't done so for a while.
This is going to be interesting to see
how this one turns out. So, keep an eye
on that. Tech generally is a little
softer [music] today, though. One of the
reasons why some of the futures picture
you were talking about Lisa just a
moment ago is indicating that we are
going to maybe move down. Tesla's one of
them, Nvidia's one of them. Uh Nvidia is
down by 1.26%. I can't find a decent
reason for this other than the fact that
yeah, we saw a decent pre Christmas
[music] tech rally and maybe some of the
chips are being taken off the table
after Christmas, but I can't find any
decent reason for it. So, let's get on
to the metals trade. I'm not going to do
copper, but I am going to do silver.
Let's talk about some of the silver
stocks. first majestic silver great
ticker AG obviously uh that is for the
periodic table fans down by 2.76% this
morning the reason for it looks like
silver is going to get choppy now it's
had this incredible run up uh as you can
see we'll move it on aboard and show you
what's happened with silver it's a gold
story as well you've seen it here in
Europe this morning with Fresno but
you're starting to see silver maybe just
moving off a little bit you can see it
over there just a tick lower but it's
producing a decent response in some of
these stocks but silver's had ancred
incredible run year to date up 161%. So,
silver certainly moving some of the
stocks this morning. You're also seeing
some of the miners moving here in Europe
on the back of that copper trade as
well. Lisa, thank you. Back over to you.
>> Thank you so much, Guy. Wonderfully said
and everybody's trying to bet on the
physical economy heading into 2026. On
our radar this morning, President Donald
Trump saying Ukraine and Russia are
quote closer than ever before to a peace
deal. Ukraine's president Zilinski
calling the framework 90% agreed with US
Ukraine security guarantees 100% set but
warns that clashing over the Dawnbass
region remains a hurdle and it comes
Matt right after we saw Russia lobbing a
slew of missiles over at Kev over the
weekend raising questions about how
serious Russia is about some sort of
truce.
>> Yeah, I think it's I mean obviously it's
a horrendous uh war that has continued
for far too long. Um to me one of the
most fascinating threads was Sergey
Lavrov who I thought had been on the ou
Russian foreign minister made a comment
over uh the weekend that Europe is now
the problem. He said since Donald Trump
has come into power the US is no longer
the problem. We've fallen into line,
right? But Europe still continues to
confront Russia in ways that he doesn't
uh like. And I just thought that was
pretty telling.
>> It was telling. And yet you saw rhetoric
from President Trump saying that Europe
is great, Ukraine is great, Russia is
great, everyone's great. And it raises
this issue of where is their daylight,
right? We haven't really understood what
the sticking points are going to be, the
90% done. And also, if it's 100%
guaranteed that they're going to have
some sort of security guarantees, why
not just count on NATO? A lot of
questions here.
>> Yeah, I think the Donbass region is
probably the biggest sticking point. How
much land Ukraine is going to have to um
secede. And one of the big problems
there is that it may not be legal even
if it's agreed by Zalinski and Trump and
Putin. Uh the country may still have to
vote on it and it's very unpopular in
Ukraine to secede uh to seed I should
say uh land.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, we're really focused
domestically on what's going on in the
AI space. Nvidia striking a licensing
deal with chip startup Grock. The deal
announced just before Christmas looks to
give Nvidia an edge in the AI race,
particularly with language processing
units. Under the agreement, Grock CEO
Jonathan Ross and other executives will
join Nvidia. However, financial details
were not released except that Grock is
valued some three times what it was a
couple of months ago at $20 billion. And
it's a non-exclusive licensing deal to
try maybe to avoid some of the
regulatory or the antitrust concerns
while also hiring 90% of the employees
from Grock. I mean, it just highlights
what the playbook is for tech giants
that have more cash than they know what
to do with ex.
>> Exactly. That's the most important
point. They have so much cash, right?
And this is an aqua hire. I hate that
portman, too. Um, but that's uh what
it's being called because they're paying
essentially $20 billion um to get the
employees of a company that was valued
at less than $7 billion just a few
months ago.
>> Yeah, I mean this to me is going to be
an interesting playbook going forward
and how much can they get away from some
sort of regulatory scrutiny in
Washington DC scrutiny by structuring it
this way. Meanwhile, Bank of America CEO
Brian Moyahan saying he expects the
Trump administration to deescalate trade
tensions next year
>> to go from a 10% across the board to 15%
for the broad base of countries. Not a
huge impact and that's where our team
says it's starting to is starting to
deescalate and that you're starting to
see the resolution of the discussions
into your 15% here 17 you know different
numbers. Moahan adding that China deals
are a special case due to the national
security interests, rare earth minerals
and artificial intelligence. It does
seem as Matt was mentioning earlier that
we have left some of that behind in
terms of trade tensions. What happened
after liberation day? Well, we kind of
just surged from there.
>> Yeah, exactly. And I I mean Moyahan
thinks that or says that Trump is going
to deescalate from 10% to 15%. Well, he
didn't mention the fact that we started
out at 2%, right? So that's really not a
huge deescalation if you look at um it
in whole.
>> Well, and this really goes to the
question of how much the consumers are
able to absorb, which is the reason why
we are watching the travel sector so
closely. Jeff Blue, CEO, saying the
company expects to see the benefits in
sales and cost efforts next year. I sat
down with Joanna Gity to discuss the
airlines 2026 outlook. Take a listen.
I want to start with just how this fits
into the strategy of JetBlue right now
to uh make the airline truly profitable
for a sustainable period of time.
>> Yeah, thanks for the question. Great to
be here and have you in Blue House,
JetBlue's first foray into lounges. This
is very much part of our Jet Forward
strategy. Um we've been working very
hard for the last several quarters on
really turning towards premium and
trying to make sure that we're offering
more opportunities for customers who
want to pay a little more and the lounge
is part of that. our transition to a
first class product next year, a
domestic first- class product will be
part of that. Our premier card um or
even more as a cabin. Um and really
excited to start seeing all of that come
to life in 2026. All of the big airlines
have talked about loyalty and how
important loyalty and premium offerings
is to their profitability going forward.
How is it different for JetBlue? Because
there isn't the sort of obvious business
customer that typically fuels the
loyalty offering.
>> I mean, we're a leisure carrier. We tend
to get, you know, a nice share of
business customers because they love the
product. You know, we're back at the top
net promoter score. So, really proud of
that. Um, but at the end of the day,
this is really designed around trying to
make sure that customers who travel for
vacation have a reason to come back
again and again and providing with a
little oasis of peace. Um, and you know,
really through our loyalty program, we
want to reward people who choose JetBlue
because they love the product, the
service, and what we offer.
>> You have already offered Mint and other
premium uh rollouts. How has it been
going?
>> It's been great. Mint's been a very
strong source of revenue for JetBlue for
well over the last decade. And so we're
not new to this. We have a brand that,
you know, definitely associates with
more of a higherend leisure customer,
providing more to customers at a very
reasonable fair. And we want to make
sure that we offer something for
everybody across the full spectrum.
Whether you want sort of a dialed down
experience, still free Wi-Fi and great
leg room and great snacks and drinks,
um, TVs, um, but then if you want to pay
a little more, you have the opportunity
for a lounge, our mint class for
transatlantic. And then when we when we
launch domestic first later this year,
that's going to be a great product
offering for customers who want a little
more.
>> So I was shuttled into here through very
long security lines and lots of people
with screaming children trying to get to
different destinations for their worm
holidays. Uh this is the busy season.
How is it looking in terms of demand
given the fact that there were some
hiccups in the past couple of months,
but at this point people are getting
back to uh what they originally had.
>> Yeah, 2025 has been a very tough year,
whether it was the macro setback or the
government shutdown or the list goes on
and on. Um, we're really looking forward
to the holiday season. Bookings are
coming in strong as we go into 2026.
We're optimistic that the consumer is
healthy. Um, and that we're going to
start uh really ramping up the
initiatives that we have been working
really hard for the last year to execute
to and seeing the benefit as we move
through 2026.
>> How long do you think it'll take before
you start to actually turn profitable
and sustain that?
>> You know, our goal next year is to break
even from an operating margin
perspective, and that's the first step
back to profitability. We have a great
team here. Everybody's pulling for us.
We're doing all the right things,
whether it's our focus on operational
reliability, net promoter score, all the
pre premium products that we're
launching, our laser focus on costs, and
and really trying to make sure that
we're um we're delivering a great
product offering for customers because
JetBlue has this wonderful brand and
this sense of people want to love us and
they want to see us succeed. And 2026 is
going to be our year with everything
we've put into place
>> because 2025 was not the year for a lot
of airlines. There were tough year for
there were a lot of issues. And you talk
about the government shutdown. This has
been a big discussion among a lot of the
air uh airline CEOs where they've said
we just can't make up that kind of
revenue so there will be some sort of
hit. Have you disclosed any kind of
revenue loss as a result of some of the
shutdown?
>> You know, we haven't disclosed any kind
of revenue loss. You know, we've said
that we remain on track for Q4 and I
think we're pleased with what we're
seeing in terms of bookings coming in
for the for the balance of the month. Um
we definitely saw some softness
obviously during the government shutdown
but we're recovering coming out of that.
I think most have have shared that but
it was it was definitely an impact and
unfortunate that the airlines were put
you know right in the middle of that
shutdown. You know all the great air
traffic controllers and the TSA workers
they need to be you know cast as
essential workers. We really need to
make sure that if anything this industry
is so essential to our economy. I mean
think about all the people who are
traveling for weddings and funerals or
doctor's appointments that were
displaced because we couldn't get on the
same page in Washington DC. So, we're
really hopeful that, you know, we've
turned a page there and that we can move
forward, you know, looking at that end
of January date with, you know, a little
bit of nervousness. Um, but I'm
confident that, uh, DC will pull it
together and get us, uh, get get us in
the back end of that.
>> Yeah. You somehow, being an airline CEO,
probably wasn't in your bingo card that
you'd be more focused on healthcare
legislation with your fingers crossed
heading into January. I'm wondering how
much you're hoping to attract a new
class of customers versus uh capitalize
on the ones that you have that might be
willing and able to pay a little bit
more with some of the new offerings.
>> Yeah, it's a little bit of both. We know
we have customers today that want our
first class product. Um and so it's
really, you know, offering that to them
so that they can buy up when that
opportunity presents it. But it's also
making sure that we're competitive with
the industry. Everybody's moved towards
premium. You know, we're going to
continue to move towards premium because
it is a resilient customer segment, but
we're not going to forget the folks that
fly in our coach product. I mean,
they're just as important and we want to
make sure that Jet JetBlue offers
something to everyone. It really does
feel a little bit like the sharks and
the jets. When you speak to some of the
airline industry CEOs where they talk
about, you know, it's become a game of
consolidation and it's become a game of
the big fish really uh dominating the
fields in a lot of different ways. They
say it's going to be very hard to be a
more budget focused airline. How do you
fight back? How do you sort of create a
viable business model at a time when you
do see this consolidation of
profitability and travel in the uh the
biggest airlines?
>> I mean, it's definitely hard. We talk
about the need for a more level playing
field when four carriers have 80% of the
domestic seats. That's a real problem.
You know, we fight very hard in DC to
try to make sure that we're heard that
the challenges we face, whether it's
cost pressures, the lack of scale, the
lack of, you know, consolidated
purchasing, um, the, you know, inability
to get access to gates. Um, we just bid
on a gate, a Heathrow, a Heathro slot.
Um, and we were denied it. Um, and so,
you know, while I maybe understand why
it went to a a legacy larger carrier,
those are little things that add up over
time. And the smaller carriers really
need to be given a fair shot to win um,
in this environment, and that's not
happening right now. So, we're focused
on what we can control. We're focused on
a whole series of initiatives under our
Jet Forward program. It's getting us
moving in the right direction. I'm
excited about what it's going to bring.
Um, but we do need uh the government to
kind of make that a more level playing
field so smaller carriers can more
effectively compete.
>> In the meantime, you do have this
cooperation with United. You've been
expanding in a host of different uh
places. Is that the template going
forward? Maybe not consolidation due to
the recent issues, but in terms of the
the previous merger that was denied, but
going forward having some sort of
partnership with major airlines to
expand the routes.
>> Yeah, we've got 50 airline partners
across the globe and now we have the
blue sky partnership with United. That
is most certainly a part of trying to
provide more utility to our loyalty
program and providing a broader global
network for our customers when
eventually in Q1 they can book a JetBlue
flight on United.com and vice versa
through our interline agreement. And so
we're excited about what it's going to
bring. Does it solve the problem fully?
No, it doesn't. But it's definitely a
meaningful revenue initiative that gets
us back back moving in the right
direction.
>> Do you anticipate consolidation at any
point in your future? Is that sort of on
the back burner still?
>> That's on the back burner. We're really
focused on Jet Forward. You know, I'm
really excited with the progress we're
making. We're seeing it. We're seeing
improved operation reliability, improved
customer scores. We have not let the
grass grow under our feet in 2025. We've
executed a whole series of revenue
initiatives. we've kept our costs under
control despite pulling a point and a
half capacity this year. Um, so 2026
really is the year that we should reap
the benefits of all these initiatives
that we put into place in 2025.
>> That was JetBlue CEO Joanna Gity
speaking with me just in the past couple
of weeks after opening their first
lounge in JFK. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your global brief with Yahira. Yahihira.
>> Hi Lisa. China is vowing to expand
government spending. Beijing plans to
boost expenditures and strengthen the
spending power [music] of local
authorities in an attempt to balance
growth and contain debt risks. It plans
to [music] spend more on quote new
productive forces like advanced
manufacturing and tech innovation.
Meanwhile, President Trump saying his
administration [music] knocked out a big
drug facility in Venezuela last week.
The strike would be the first known land
attack on the country since the
administration began its campaign
against Venezuela. This comes as the
president ramps up pressure against the
country's [music] president, Nicolas
Maduro. And North Korea says it
conducted a long range [music] strategic
cruise missile launch drill over the
West Sea Sunday as it continues to
showcase its weapons capabilities amid
regional tensions. The country's [music]
news agency says it was carried out to
test counterattack readiness and combat
capabilities of its long range missile
unit. [music] That's your brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahara. Next, the
year of dollar softness.
>> 2025 has been a year of dollar softness.
The dollar has been softer, but we
shouldn't overread [music] that. Uh the
the the bid for US assets, including the
dollar on balance, continues.
>> Bloomberg Skyler Montgomery Koig joins
us next as we look ahead to the possible
debasement trade. Or is it? This is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> trying to get that holiday feeling, that
holiday spirit into the equity market
right now. Not really feeling it. seeing
right now declines on futures, lower by
about 2 ten of a percent on the S&P.
[music] Still, as Matt pointed out
earlier, about 1% away from that 7,000
mark as we do end the year near record
highs. Meanwhile, a bit of dollar
strength here, although just 11767
on the Euro dollar cross. And the
10-year yield getting a bid uh down
almost two basis points to 4.11%.
Copper, check it out. We have faded an
almost 6% rally earlier in the session,
now up just 6/10 of a percent. to Matt's
question earlier, who's buying it? Well,
I guess some people are asking that
question and fading some of the earlier
uh gains that we had seen under
surveillance this morning. Shifting
gears to the year of dollar softness.
>> 2025 has been a year of dollar softness,
but most of that dollar softness was
built into the first few months of the
year. It's really been steady as she
goes since the summer. That's
noteworthy. suggestive of something else
we've been saying all along, which is,
yeah, the dollar has been softer, but we
shouldn't overread that. Uh, the the the
bid for US assets, including the dollar
on balance, continues.
>> Here's the latest. The US dollar posting
its worst week since [music] June with
Bloomberg's dollar index showing the
greenback on course for its steepest
yearly drop since 2017. Lots of
questions around debasement. Bloomberg's
Skyler Montgomery Koig joins us now. And
Skyler, thank you so much for being with
us. Before we get to the dollar and the
path ahead, I'm curious your view on how
much you consider gold and silver when
discussing whether we are seeing truly a
debasement trade take hold.
>> Yeah, I mean I think the one place that
you can see investors really pivot away
from the dollar is in CO for data. So
central bank reserves have pivoted away
from the US dollar but it's not landed
in one currency specifically because
there is no clear alternative which is
the issue. Now, I bring this up because
there's also been a pivot into gold and
I think that's increased enthusiasm for
assets generally that are more out of
the norm and for the dollar it's not a
big impact because it's a small flow but
for gold it is very much a big flow
relative because it's a smaller market.
So I think it's it's you know definitely
symptomatic of that trade but it doesn't
necessarily mean that you're going to
have big dollar downside because Kofheer
reserves um the share for the dollar has
been declining for something like two
decades now and you've had big cyclical
dollar bull markets in that period. So
it's a small flow for the US dollar
especially as it still dominates trade
flows. It still dominates financial
flows but it's a big flow for gold.
>> How much is a weakening dollar a
consensus trade heading into 2026?
I think it's more mixed than maybe the
headline numbers tell you. Um what you
tend to see actually is at the beginning
of the year if there's not a strong
bias, you tend to have consensus go
towards dollar weakness and that's
because you've had dollar overvaluation
on a number of metrics for a very long
time now. Now I think the issue is those
metrics is they don't take into account
productivity gains. Um and so on that
measure you'd say valuation should have
a structural break higher because the US
has been more productive than a lot of
its um developed market peers. So I
think you know when there isn't a clear
bias as we had at the beginning of last
year which was actually for dollar
strength you tend to see dollar weakness
come out as the favored trade um at the
beginning of the year and year ahead
outlooks. I have a pretty smooth brain,
so I can't think of uh too many um
factors at once. I just look at rates,
right? And in terms of the terminal rate
that futures are pricing in right now,
it's 3%. If we don't go that low, do you
maybe get a dollar with more strength
than the streets expecting?
>> Yeah, I think certainly. Um so there are
two factors that I'm really thinking
about next year for the dollar. The
first is that we had this risk premium
priced in on liberation day. Now that
premium has compressed as some of your
more woring policies from the US
administration has come off. So we no
longer have the big threats to the Fed's
independence that we had previously. And
you've also had more positive growth
drivers like fiscal stimulus. Now I
think that compression still has the
room to run and you can see in the gap
that's opened up between say Euro dollar
and rate differentials that there could
be some moves still in that. Um, but I
think also, as you say, the Fed is kind
of priced at what I would consider as a
dovish extreme, which points to rate
differentials also moving in the
dollar's favor in 2026. The market's
still looking for a terminal rate around
3%. That's in line with the Fed's
estimate of neutral. So, it's arguably a
floor for pricing because going lower
would imply a recessionary dynamic that
would boost the dollar as a safe haven
in any case. But a 3% terminal isn't a
ceiling for the Fed. I don't think we've
already repriced terminal higher twice
this year from the Fed's perspective in
terms of you've had that neutral dot
kind of edging upwards as the economy
has held up very strongly. So I think
certainly you could go higher from here
and that skews the risk to being dovish
Fed expectations being disappointed and
that's supporting the dollar.
>> Bloomberg scholar Montgomery Koig, thank
you so much for being with us uh this
morning. And Matt, I should start more
of my questions with I have a very
smooth brain. That's fantastic. I love
it.
>> I just She mentioned productivity and
all these other factors and I'm as a
male sometimes incapable of thinking of
too many things at once, right?
>> Categorize all men like that. All I can
say I'm going to stand up for the
[laughter] content here. Now look, there
is this question of what is the main
driver at any given point? And right now
it has gotten incredibly muddied because
a lot of people talking about rate
differentials possibly being the main
driver. Other people pointing to the
question of well is the Fed truly
independent? Something that [music] you
picked up.
>> Yeah, I I would question uh the Fed's
independence now and especially next
year. I mean what could happen I think
is still in question.
>> What could happen is coming up next.
We're going to be speaking with Deborah
Cunningham of Federated Global
Investment, Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy, and [music] Savvy Sith of
Raymond James as we dig deeper into the
airline sector as we do all travel. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> Next year, you have the hallmarks of
potentially pretty exciting year.
>> Balanced portfolios make a lot of sense
heading into 2026. [music]
setting this up for a year where you're
going to see a lot of churning but have
moderate returns. We see a huge amount
of appreciation across the AI names.
There's a question of which ones and how
long can that run for. Respect [music]
the trend but don't ignore the risks as
we go into 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks marching toward new
records, but taken a little bit off this
morning as traders bet on stimulus and
growth. Precious metals in focus with
prices of gold and silver dipping a bit
after [music] a parabolic rally. Copper,
meanwhile, surging on that realworld
demand. And President Trump closing out
the year trying to tie up what has been
an elusive peace deal [music] between
Ukraine and Russia. Matt Miller in the
hot seat today. So glad to have you as
we play tag here on surveillance. Uh
John is out on paternity leave and Maria
is off on vacation. Matt Miller, I am so
pleased to spend the next couple of
hours with you. I I'm just wondering
given this rally is 1% away from
all-time highs, what will it take to get
it over the edge?
>> Yeah, well, I think um we typically have
a Santa Claus rally in the last 5 days
of December, first two in January that
averages a gain of 1 and a.5%. Right
now, we're only up 3/10en of a percent
in the first two days of that. So, we
could still easily get there. And it
looks like the market wants to despite
the fact that futures are off a little
bit today. It seems like the bet is on a
broadening out and you are seeing a
little bit more of that this morning
with the idea of losses in S&P futures
and NASDAQ futures but not necessarily
in Russell 2000 futures and this idea
you need to see that there has been a
shift in the conversation around AI and
I think it's worth mentioning that Grock
uh Nvidia deal that we saw last week
with a question of what this signifies
going forward that Nvidia is trying to
consolidate its market share to get a
non-exclusive licensing deal with a
company where they're going to hire most
of the people and possibly get a more
efficient chip to put out there on the
docket. It just highlights how things
are shifting in terms of narrative.
>> Well, only a few months ago um industry
experts would have told you nobody's
even close to catching up with Nvidia in
terms of the technology and then we got
the Google uh TPU story which I think
changed that calculus a little bit. But
look, the M&A is part of the uh animal
[music] spirits. the IPOs we've seen
part of the animal spirits that have
essentially eliminated bears from this
market in terms of equities. Everyone is
a bull.
>> Yeah, right now everyone's a bull
heading into next year which raises the
question, how much more bullish can
people get and what do they need to see
[music] to possibly shift that view.
Precious metals highlighting this
concern about some sort of debasement
trade or haven trade or maybe it's just
the real economy and what we're seeing
there. You are seeing copper prices
retreat after being up some 6% [music]
in pre-market trading, now up 210 of a
percent uh just as people look to some
of the stockpiling going on and losing
those gains as we speak. Silver,
meanwhile, down almost 6% after a rip
roaring record run. And what we have
seen in the bond space, and this is
interesting, so much depends on next
year, what happens with the Federal
Reserve. The 2-year yield started this
year at 4.23%.
Currently, it is 3.47%. The 10-year is
down from 4.55% currently 4.11%. The
best rally right going back [music] to
2017. The 30-year yield started this
year almost in the same place that it is
now around 4.8%. Matt, it just
highlights [music] how you can move the
front end, but the long end rests on
something completely different.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I uh tend to
broaden out my look at rates to at least
November when we had the election,
right? And to September when the Fed
started uh cutting. And if you look at
it over that time frame, [music] you've
seen an even bigger rise in 10-year
yields. So, I know that this
administration wants to get um the
10-year yield down. They want to get
mortgage rates down. They want to lower
interest rates for companies that have
[music] uh driven a lot bankrupt, but
they haven't been successful thus far.
>> Meanwhile, right now, we are looking at
a pretty quiet week as we head toward
that New Year celebration on Thursday.
Thursday will be a closed day. I'm sure
everybody is going to be traveling and
enjoying their families. We are going to
be getting though tomorrow some meeting
minutes from the Federal Reserve. We're
also going to be getting jobless claims
[music] uh later on this week on
Wednesday. A real question here about
any read or tell from some of the
[music] information that we're getting
given the fact that people say the GDP
print from last week or the jobs report
that we did get from uh the previous
couple of months have been so messy that
you have to wait until early in January
to get a cleaner read. Coming up this
hour, Debbie Cunningham of Federated
Hermes as Wall Street pushes for
year-end rally. Terry Haynes of Pia
Policy as Nancy Pelosi predicts big
Democratic wins in 2026. And Savvy Sith
of Raymond James is holiday flight
cancellations deliver a costly blow to
airlines. Begin this hour with stocks
holding near record highs as we start
the final trading week of 2025. The
future of the Federal Reserve very much
in focus. Bank of America CEO Brian
Moyahan saying an independent Fed is
critical for the health of the markets.
>> They're a lender of last resort. They're
there to stabilize markets and price,
but other than that, you shouldn't know
they exist. Quite frankly,
>> you don't worry about all this, you
know, hand ringing of political
interference with the Fed once that new
position is.
>> The market is a will punish people if we
don't have an independent Fed and
everybody knows that. Debbie Cuttingham
of Federated Hermes is writing, "While
the Trump administration attacks in the
committee have intensified worry in the
financial markets, we believe the Fed
will prevail. This does seem to be the
pre-minent uh belief right now in
markets." Debbie joins us now from more.
Debbie, why do you think that the idea
of Fed independence is kind of behind us
and that people have sort of closed that
story out in 2025 and look to a sort of
more normal Fed in 2026?
Well, I think what we saw in 2025 was a
surprised and then ultimately a divided
Fed. Um, you know, we we still don't
know the full ending to the Lisa Cook
story. Um, we do know the ending to uh
what the Supreme Court has thought about
as Fed Independence and a a different
type of of uh body compared to some of
the other ones. Um, we saw President
Trump go from, you know, supporting
Chair Pal to trying to fire Chair Pal to
being told he can't fire Chair Pal to
submitting to trying to find other um
replacements for him, interviewing
replacement candidates for him for, you
know, his his uh expiration of his of
his chair term in 2026. So, I just feel
like what we've seen so far um has been
a bit of a you know upheaval and turmoil
within the Fed that now that the
independence has been you know
solidified I think that will uh not be
the case going into 2026. However, what
I do think will be the case is that we
see less um less
voting that is all in alignment. I think
we will see more dissents. We've already
started to see them in the last three
meetings and I think that will probably
continue and you know what we've seen
historically as hawks, centrists and
doves will become even a little bit more
pronounced in their voting.
>> So do you think Debbie that people are
overpricing the chance of rate cuts next
year?
I think they are at least from what the
Fed is telling us with their um you know
their dot plot their series of economic
projections. Um you know they are
looking for one. Our official call right
now as we as we uh you know transport
into 2026 is for two one in the first
half one in the second half. But I think
ultimately although the pace of um
lowering rates has modified from where
it was when we started 2025, the
ultimate terminal rate, Lisa, seems to
be the same. I mean, it's not going
below 3%. And um that's where I think
the bond market is settling in. That's
why you see, you know, the 10-year
rallying at the at various points. Um
that's why you see a range trade that is
really more indicative of um actual
technicals and market conditions. You
know, as we head into year-end um supply
and demand, repo market um uh uh you
know, issues all seem to have more of a
influence on rates on a day-to-day basis
for this, you know, last trading week
week of the year. But ultimately, when
you look at the terminal rate for the
Fed, um over time, it's still at 3%.
It's just 3% a year earlier.
>> I wonder uh how you view liquidity right
now. Given your position and um given
that we're now have eclipsed $8 trillion
in money markets, it seems like there's
a lot of cash sloshing around the system
um and we have pretty decent growth,
right? Even though even though it's hard
to look at these economic data points,
3.8% GDP, um maybe only 2.6% inflation.
What's your view on sort of the macro
picture?
>> You know, I think the macro picture at
this point is that the worst is behind
us. We really when we went into 2025
were toying with the uh potential for
some sort of a um you know substantial
growth slowdown into a potential
recession. That's behind us now though
at this point. We think the worst
quarter you know obviously was the first
quarter of 2025 and the consumer
continues to be employed. So the
consumer continues to spend and the
consu consumer is the one driving the
economy in this um in this you know
recovery that we have been experiencing.
So I think slow growth will be the case.
I nobody I know not a lot of people like
that from a an equity market standpoint.
It doesn't get the same um you know sort
of splashy results that a faster growth
economy do uh does. But but I but I
believe that when you look at um
liquidity markets, when you look at
broader term fixed income, slow growth
is not a bad not a bad place to be and
we've seen that certainly in the
gathering of assets in the in the
liquidity market as you said, you know,
recently passing the $8 trillion mark.
>> Debbie Cunningham of Federated Hermes,
thank you so much for being with us and
have a wonderful New Year's celebration
as we assess what's going on next year.
It is sort of this contradiction, Matt,
that we're talking about the potential
for slow growth and everyone's talking
about how consumer sentiment is down.
And then you saw the GDP print from last
week come out, which was the fastest
pace in two years. And it sort of raises
this issue of are we seeing an economy
entirely powered on data centers? Well,
human beings kind of wonder what their
existence is and wonder what the path is
going forward and lose confidence in
their futures.
>> I mean, I find the term K-shaped kind of
annoying. Um but it it seems to be
prevalent across a range of uh of uh
different industries and and paradigms.
I mean certainly in M&A you see it
certainly in uh in terms of profit
growth you see it certainly in terms of
the consumer you see it. So I just don't
understand how 3.75%
is restrictive. I mean, are we really
looking at a rate that's 75 basis points
too high and still growing at a 4% clip?
>> Okay, so this is the debate, right? For
mom and pop stores, not so much. You
talk about M&A. Where is the M&A
happening? Yes, it's happening across
the board. It's happening out of
necessity, right? Because companies want
to get bigger. Banks in particular, also
industrials, but you're also seeing the
ongoing tech M&A because companies can,
right? We talk about Nvidia and Grock
and the 20 billion valuation. They're
just sort of minting money. But we also
have another deal that could potentially
be announced this morning. We're hearing
that SoftBank could be announcing
digital bridge. This question of that
race really driving a lot of this
activity and without that what happens
right how much is left and is it
restricted for who
>> right? Without that you only have the
lower half of the K right and I guess
that's the problem. 700 and I think 17
companies filed for bankruptcy through
November. Um and obviously that's uh
worse than we want to see it and that's
all due to interest rates and inflation.
But inflation, I think, is something
that you shouldn't forget, right?
Because the last print looked soft. Um,
but companies still have to pass through
more of these tariff costs.
>> I'm very much with you and we'll be
watching that coming up. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahara on it. Yah.
>> Hi, Lisa. Policy makers for the Bank of
Japan are signaling more interest rate
hikes are ahead. A summary of the bank's
December meeting shows board members
raised concern over the benchmark rate,
calling it the lowest level globally.
Currently, [music] the BOJ's key
interest rate sits at a 30-year high.
Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Vladimir
Zalinski says he asked President Trump
for US security guarantees lasting as
long as 50 years. Zilinski spoke [music]
to reporters after the two leaders met
yesterday in Florida. Current proposals
outline a 15-year security term with the
possibility for extension. President
Donald Trump says Ukraine and Russia are
quote closer than ever before to a peace
deal. Meanwhile, silver pulling back
from all-time highs as traders take
profits from this year's recordbreaking
rally. A weaker dollar and rising
geopolitical tensions, boosting precious
metals during the endofear [music]
rally. Silver is on track for its best
annual performance since 1951. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhierra, up next,
winning the house.
>> So, if [music] the Democrats win the
House back,
>> no, no, no. When when the Democrats win
the House back, then we will. Right now,
>> the Republicans and the Congress have
abolished the Congress. That ends as
soon as we have the gabble.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
next as we preview 2026 in Washington
DC. [music] From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> failing to get that Christmas and New
Year's and holiday spirit into the
markets right now. The Santa rally kind
of fading just a touch, down about 210
of a percent on S&P futures. as you see
a bigger move on the NASDAQ. Although
Russell 2000 about flat in early market
trading. Meanwhile, just a touch of
dollar strength after a pretty weak
month. We are seeing 11759 down by about
uh onetenth of 1% the euro versus the
dollar cross. A stronger dollar.
Meanwhile, 10ear yields down about two
basis points to 411. They have declined
from some 4.55% at the beginning of this
year. And copper coming off some of the
earlier highs. We saw that up now 6% in
pre-market trading. Now we're only up
3/10en of a percent. A real question of
Dr. Copper. Is there a tell here? Who is
stockpiling copper? Is it all of us as
we build out data centers under
surveillance this morning? A focus in
Washington DC winning the house.
>> So if the Democrats win the House back?
>> No. No. No. When when the Democrats win
the House back, then we will. Right now.
>> Yeah. The Republicans and the Congress
have abolished the Congress. They just
do what the president insists that they
do. That will be over. That ends as soon
as we have the gabble.
>> Here's the latest. Former Speaker of the
House Nancy Pelosi predicting
congressional success for Democrats in
next year's midterm elections. A recent
Gallup poll finding Americans approval
of the current Congress is at just 17%.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, as we set up into next
year, the mid midterm elections seem to
already send a message to Washington DC.
How have you seen the messaging shift
from both sides ahead of the midterm
elections?
Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. Well,
that polling that you just showed is
pretty brutal, but it does highlight the
fact that this Congress has only passed
fewer than 40 bills so far this year,
which hovers near record lows. So,
you've really seen Democrats on one side
try to highlight what uh they say should
be other policies put forward, but that
their hands are tied because they don't
control both chambers of Congress and
the White House. And the White House try
to tout what they've already put into
effect. Right. We heard President Trump
tell Politico on Friday that the
midterms are going to be all about
pricing. In his words, as we've spoken
about multiple times on this program,
the administration has tried to shift
the messaging when it comes to the issue
of affordability. And you were just
discussing that GDP number from last
week. President Trump coming out and
touting that growth while we've seen
consumers really remain downbeat. That
means that we're going to see the
potential for few different policies
going forward here. Right. Republicans
want to tout what they've already done,
including many of them saying that we're
going to get large refunds come tax
season. Many of them also floating that
we could see another reconciliation
package next year. But there are also
going to be those big headwinds, and
that's what Democrats have been
highlighting, including that we could be
staring at another government shutdown
come January 30th. And there still
hasn't been any movement when it comes
to a potential healthc care deal. Uh
Lisa, I'll give you the upshot here,
which is that Democrats only need to net
three seats next year in order to flip
that chamber. That is how slim the
margins are. We are talking about the
House, but also worth mentioning in the
Senate. The math's a little bit more
tricky, but Republicans have seen some
senators in key seats say that they're
not going to run for reelection like Tom
Tillis in North Carolina and Joanie
Ernst in Iowa. Those were some seats
that Republicans were banking on.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. Right now, Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy uh joins us for more. Terry, it
does seem like 2025 was the year of
Trump. President Trump dominated a lot
of the news. We did not see a lot of
congressional action. How different will
2026 be?
Well, I think uh I think people in
markets feel that uh they're pretty well
worn out from uh from 2025 and the kind
of Washington action they saw across the
board. Uh I told markets that I thought
2026 was going to look like a frenzy
because uh you'd see Trump and
Republicans doubling down on what they
did and do the maximum amount of
possible to make sure that uh they put
the best case before the public that
they ought to continue with a Republican
trifecta in Washington. Hey, I thought
it was interesting, Terry, that um uh
Trump and the party kind of campaigned
on an anti-neocon,
like we're going to focus on domestic
issues and get out of foreign policy
disasters. Um and and now they focused
almost solely on foreign policy and are
bombing different countries and uh it
looks like now maybe even a land strike
on Venezuela. Does that continue into
2026?
Well, I think they'd uh they'd dispute
the premise. Certainly the uh uh the big
beautiful bill is is about domestic u
and to the extent it's about
international. It's about making sure
that uh that what you get in uh in
American industry is is reshoring and a
uh a much better and bigger defense
industrial base. uh but but I do think
you can you you see continuing that
pretty muscular foreign policy uh
because uh that's part and parcel of
what the uh the competition with China
is all about. So, do we get in I mean it
looks like um we may agree to a 30 to
50year commitment in Ukraine. At least
those are the reports from Zalinski this
morning. And do we get into land war in
Venezuela or do we attempt regime change
again in South America? Well, I think
what you're what you're seeing on on
both the United States and China's part
is uh is grasping for pushing against uh
kind of hemispherical uh uh dominance
around uh certainly a lot of what China
does in the South China Sea and beyond
is about hemispherical dominance. Uh
pushing on Russia and Europe on trade is
about hemispherical dominance. uh the
China being the biggest trade partner of
South America is about hemispherical
dominance and and uh it's it's a big
reason why uh why Trump and the the
Congress both are focusing on pushing
back against that whether you're talking
about what happened in Argentina, what
is happening in Venezuela, uh what
happened in Colombia and so on.
>> You heard Nancy Pelosi talking about how
Democrats are going to take control of
Congress come 2027. Certainly the 2026
midterm elections, there is this
question about what the Democratic
agenda really looks like and there's
been a battle for what priorities the
Democrats really want to put forward.
How different are they from what
President Trump is doing?
>> Uh well, they're they're different in a
lot of ways. I think the uh you know,
Mrs. Pelosi, of course, is in her uh in
her exit interviews phase and uh you
know, you're a leader of a party, you're
always closing, right? to always be
closing. And uh you know, but I would
say to you a couple of things, Lisa. One
is that it's way premature to uh to
suggest that Democrats are going to take
uh take anything over. Simple math is
when you've got uh at least 10% of the
seats up for grabs through retirements
and whatnot, you know, and you need such
tiny margins to hold. Uh right now,
almost a year out, anything could
happen. And that certainly wasn't the
plan in 2016 that Republicans were going
to hold both houses and yet they did. Uh
that said, u I think that Democrats
frankly want status quo more. You know,
they on on margin uh what Democrats want
uh is going to be kind of less desirable
by markets because it's just going to
pile on more debt and deficit. that is
what the progressives in the party want
that have the energy and the money in
the party. Uh what Republicans are
trying to do, not cheerleading for him,
but I'm just saying is trying to figure
out ways to to to lessen debt and
deficit to some of to to some effect and
show markets that frankly. And uh you
know, Bessant has said that uh this is a
three or fouryear process, but he's
hoping that uh that they can get there
by the end of it.
>> So Terry, you don't think that they're
going to sign off on 3,000 or $2,000
checks come early next year? and expand
the deficit.
>> Oh, I think there will certainly be some
deficit expanding
actions taken. It's uh it'd be naive to
for anybody to think that uh politics is
about some ideology and and
fundamentally these days I think it is
not about uh about ideologies. Certainly
if you if you accept the premise that uh
that Trumpes Washington then you're
seeing a fairly non ideological
president. Uh but uh you know I do I
think they'll uh they'll they'll cut
some checks. Yeah, I think they probably
will. Do I also think uh that they have
it in their ability through a couple of
different times in a couple of different
ways through the winter and spring to do
do something about uh Obamacare that
that that lowers the debt deficit. Yeah,
do that too.
>> Terry Haynes of Panchio Policy, thank
you so much for being with us and have a
wonderful New Year celebration. Coming
up, more from our conversation with
legendary investor and co-founder of Oak
Capital Markets, Howard Mars, plus Guy
Johnson with your morning movers, Soft
Bank, and advanced talks to acquire
Digital Bridge Group. Those shares
[music] up more than 30%. From New York,
this is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
[music]
A bit of a soggy start to start the last
trading week of 2025. We are seeing
futures lower on both the S&P and the
NASDAQ. About 210 of a percent loss on
futures in the S&P. NASDAQ down 4/10en
of a percent. Russell kind of catching
up to that or catching down I should
say. [music] Down about a tenth of a
percent still. We are up 18% on the S&P
so far this year. Matt, what are we 1%
away from that 7,000 mark? Yeah, on the
cash trade, uh I think we closed at uh
6929 or 6932 around there. Um so about
70 points away from 7,000, which isn't
meaningful in any other sense than it's
a big round number. So if we hit that by
the end of the year, I think markets
would be pretty excited.
>> Yeah, they're hoping for that Santa
rally to get to that big round number.
Meanwhile, the big round number in twos,
tens, and 30s is yields have actually
gone down considerably this year, at
least in the twos and tens
denominations. You are seeing on the
front end of the yield curve. We started
the year at 4.23%
on that 2-year. Now we're seeing 3.47%
[music]
down a full basis point. 10-year yields
started the year at 4.55%. We are
currently below 4.11 down two basis
points. The 30-year yield has basically
been pinned at this 4.8% level. 2 hours
away from the cash open. Let's head over
your morning movers with Guy Johnson
over in London. Guy, over to you.
>> Morning, Lisa. Metals and tech. Those
are the two themes you need to think
about first thing this morning. So,
let's start with the metals, then we'll
do the tech in just a second. So,
silver, we know it's down this morning,
but it's had a great run. So, silver
stocks have had a great run as well. AG,
this is first Majestic Silver Corp, just
one of a number of silver names this
morning. Therefore, pre-market that is
giving back a little bit of ground.
People are talking about a bit of
choppiness in this space. Gold had a
great run. The miners did well on the
back of that. And you can see silver,
look at that run that it's had,
particularly at the back end of the
year, just beginning to give a little
bit of that back now. Are we going to
see some choppiness going forward from
here? Are those stocks going to be
reacting 160% to the upside on silver
year to date? That's a phenomenal move.
Okay, so let's stay with the metal
steam, but kind of go from the top to
the bottom in terms of the table right
off the bottom in fact and deal with
uranium. This is Energy Fuels Inc. This
is a company uh that is based out of
Denver. Uh it is a company that mines in
Arizona and mines in Utah. It does
uranium and it also does rare earths as
well. This morning it's out with news
that it's doing well on the revenue and
the sales front. Uh when it comes to the
uranium sales story, why is this
important? Uranium stocks have had a
fantastic run this year. Why have
uranium stocks had a fantastic run this
year? Because uranium goes into nuclear
power plants which goes into data
centers via the electrons that flow out
of them. Uh so that takes us to the data
center story. It's all related into this
narrative. And that takes us onto our
last one which is digital bridge group.
Remember, we saw Soft Bank selling out
of Nvidia a few weeks back. Uh we're now
starting to see maybe some distribution
of that money. Advanced talks, we
understand for SoftBank to acquire
Digital Bridge. What is Digital Bridge?
It is a private equity company. It's
based out of Boker. It's based out of
New York. It's based out of LA. What is
it invested? Yeah, you guessed it. Data
Centers amongst other things. Uh and the
advanced talks story this morning
driving this stock sharply to the
upside. As you can see, we're up by,
let's call it a third, 33%. Lisa, back
to you.
>> Thank you so much, guy. Great work as
always. On our radar this morning,
President [music] Trump saying he made a
lot of progress in talks with Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zilinsky over
husband.
Zalinski asking the United States to
consider providing Keev with security
guarantees that would last 30 to 50
years. Also, President Trump holding
another high-profile meeting in Florida
today. This time with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The two
aiming to boost a US brokered ceasefire
in Gaza, which faces challenges as it
moves into its second phase. And lastly,
silver pulling back from all-time highs
as traders take profit from this year's
record-breaking rally. It's on track for
its best annual performance since 1951,
rising some 161%. Meanwhile, copper
surging to a fresh record close,
extending a stunning year-end rally,
fueled by concerns over tighter supply.
Markets are capping off a year of
seismic shifts from the dominance of AI
to historic trade tensions to the Fed's
independence under threat. Earlier this
month, I spoke with Oak Tree co-founder
Howard Marks about his latest memo
exploring if there's a bubble in
artificial intelligence. Take a listen.
>> The unproductive bubbles I would
describe as financial fads. Uh portfolio
insurance was one, subprime mortgages
was another. uh just uh you know
financial activities that become
fashionable uh zoom into popularity, get
overhyped and then recede. Uh but then
there are
bubbles which are based on technological
progress starting with the steam engine,
the railroad, the radio, the automobile,
uh computers, internet etc. And these
actually push society ahead uh and
change it irreversibly. Uh but in the
process there's a bubble surrounding
their implementation which is overly uh
accelerated and overly financed and goes
to excess and end up destroying a lot of
capital but leave society uh greatly
changed. And I'm sure that AI is in the
latter category in terms of effect on
society. And the question is will the
implementation uh prove to have been
excessive in scope and in in the way
it's financed.
>> Just because something is excessive
doesn't mean that you can't invest in
it.
>> No. But but it it it
you know when when when
every when investors hate everything
and won't touch it with the 10-ft pole,
chances are it's going to be on sale
because nobody has pushed up the price.
In fact, their disinterest has pushed
down the price. But when everybody likes
something, is excited about something,
chances are it may be overhyped and
overpriced. So you just have to be
careful.
>> So that's where we are right now. You
said you can invest and you can
participate, but you just have to be
careful.
>> What does being careful look like? Does
it mean focusing more on debt versus
equities? More on equities versus debt?
More on small companies versus big ones?
What does that look like?
>> Well, uh,
what I say in the memo is that it's okay
to lend for activities even if they're
uncertain, but not if they are if the
outcomes are purely conjectural. I mean,
in order to be a smart lender, you have
to have good visibility on the the
extent to which the thing has is likely
to repay interest in principle. Uh if
it's just purely conjectural, uh it's
not you shouldn't be a lender. And in
fact, it's I think the memo says that um
where that's the case, you should
actually if you want to participate, you
should be in the equity so at least you
get the upside. The lender has no
upside. you you make it 9% loan, all
you're going to get is 9% no matter how
well the thing does. You certainly
shouldn't do that in in
uh activities that have a high
probability of not paying off at all
because then you have unlimited downside
and limited upside. That's absolutely
the wrong combination.
>> So you think right now in some
circumstances the equity might actually
be a better option than the debt because
of that potential upside?
>> Yes, exactly. Because the point is that
if you if you go into some startup which
has a the possib you know let's say a
small possibility of a of a raging
success
uh you you you know you you wouldn't
lend to it because you have a high
probability of losing all your money and
no probability of participating in the
success. That's a bad trade. So you
always talk about this riskreward
pendulum, the risk and fear, the sort of
uh fear and greed pendulum right now.
And yesterday we saw Oracle come out and
talk about having to borrow more money,
having to spend more and people are
selling off the shares. Does this make
you feel good? Does this make you feel
like there actually is some discretion?
>> Well, well, yeah. Well, I think that I I
think that it's it's uh you know,
Buffett says the less prudence with
which others conduct our affairs, the
greater the prudence with which we must
conduct our own affairs. So when other
people are acting imprudently and
mindlessly and carefree, uh we should be
worried. When other people are showing
appropriate concern, that's a positive
sign that the market is applying some
discipline. the greatest some of the
greatest moments that I've seen uh some
of the greatest signals of danger in the
markets have been when people were not
applying any prudence at all like in '
06 for example. Uh so if if people are
reacting harshly to to aggressive
possibly uh risk uh uh uh indicating
activities, yes, that's that's a healthy
sign. And this market is is seems
healthier than the than the 2000 market
to me.
>> How concerned are you that we get a
Federal Reserve that's more
accommodative for a variety of reasons
that leads to even more risk-taking?
this idea that not only did the Fed cut
rates, indicated more rate cuts, but
also is adding to its balance sheet in a
way that could potentially prop up
demand.
>> Well, um, you know, I was thinking about
this when I was waiting to to see you
today, uh, you know, uh, most of the
people listening to this uh, program,
including me and you, uh, are interested
in the free markets and we think free
markets should set the prices of things.
uh and uh the Fed manipulations are a
form of price controls. You know, they
control the price of money and uh if if
the if the Fed puts money artificially
cheap,
then it induces behavior like
risk-taking. It it it forces people into
riskier activities because the returns
on safe activities are so low. it it uh
tends to reinforce the view that there's
a Fed put that that if there's a problem
the Fed will solve it and that
contributes to risky behavior. These are
all bad bad things. And you know, I
believe that the Fed should be uh uh
passive uh most of the time and only
come to the rescue if the market is if
the if the economy is s seriously
overheated and tending towards
hyperinflation or seriously um
under active and not creating jobs. U I
don't think that's the case right now. I
don't think there's a and you can see in
the divided uh open market committee
that there's a difference of opinion. Uh
so I don't think that action on the part
of the Fed is compelling right now and
you know um there are people who think
that rates should be a lot lower than
they than they are today. Uh I I just
don't see that the merit in that
>> right now going forward. But I remember
back in uh 2015, 2016, 2017 where rates
were incredibly low. You were saying
people just need to lower their
expectations for returns because
ultimately you have to look at the
risk-free rate and you don't want to re
reach too much at a time where people
are greedy.
>> Where are we right now in terms of what
types of returns people [clears throat]
ought to expect based on the current uh
income rates?
Well, uh the lower base interest rates
are everything scales off that. So, uh
you know, uh I mean the Fed funds rate
at 3 and a half is below history. It's
these are not high rates. They're only
high relative to the last 15 years. But
this is a low rate.
So everything scales off that. most
things will give moderate returns in the
debt area.
I [clears throat] think prospective
returns are moderate. Okay. Uh not lush
but not inadequate. Uh the trouble is
that the S&P uh based on its PE ratio
relative to history appears to be priced
uh to to provide
a very low prospective return. uh
historically if you bought at this PE
ratio um uh your return over the next 10
years averaged in the very low single
digits. So I I think we're in a moderate
return scenario. Uh the problem is that
how do you get a high return in a
moderate return scenario? And most
people's uh resort is to take a lot more
risk. And that's something I don't like
to do other than when it's compelling.
>> You had a a personal note, an addendum
at the end and we I led off with that uh
idea of what artificial intelligence and
machine learning will do to the labor
market. It's something clearly on the
Fed's mind, clearly on investors mind.
You're talking about concerns that there
is going to be cannibalization from
human jobs.
>> How do you see this playing out? How are
you kind of grappling with this when you
look at investments, when you look at
fiscal deficit, when you look at the
backdrop for the financial system?
>> Well, look, Lisa, here I'm not talking
about investing or economics. I'm
talking about society. And it's very
worrying to me. And uh, you know, I've
gotten some very nice response from
people I respect to the memo, and one of
them said he thinks we've seen this in
response to the internet over the last
uh 25 years. Uh
but it has not raised unemployment
because it the internet eliminated white
collar jobs that were replaced by blue
collar jobs like you know people who
pick stuff in warehouses and and and
send it out in e-commerce. Uh so uh job
count is not down but job quality is
down and uh and uh I think that this is
very worrisome and as I said in the uh
addendum
when we lost jobs to automation and
offshoring.
I think that that coincided with the
opiate uh epidemic and uh not only in
amount but also in location and I think
it's a natural consequence of people
sitting around all day and um even if we
if we can find a a way to replace their
income I worry about purposelessness and
you know we we get so much job
so much from our jobs
other than a paycheck and you can't
replace that stuff.
>> Wise words from Oak Tree Capital
Management co-chair Howard Marks. I
could listen to him all day. Such deep
thinking uh at a time when everybody is
banking on the artificial intelligence
trade and wondering what it's actually
going to do going forward. Yeah, I think
the uh first of all, I could listen to
him all day as well and he's an
incredibly um smart man who says some
really preient things. I think uh in
terms of artificial intelligence for me
when I try and link it back to the
market, the most interesting thing will
be uh how damaging it is to software
companies. And you know, venture capital
um tends to invest very heavily in
software companies because of uh the
model. it's much easier for them to
predict out um revenue streams, but a
lot of those companies will have lunch
eaten by AI because why would you buy a
pre-programmed package when you can
program it yourself?
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, up next, we're going to
be talking about the resilient traveler.
>> Demand is has been, you know, resilient,
right? Every time there's cold water
cold water poured on the the the the
environment, it seems like, you know,
travelers want to come back. More from
the conversation with American Airlines
CEO Robert Isam coming up. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Seeing a bit of softness this morning
that does deepen particularly at the
Russell 2000 ahead of the open. A little
bit of a bid into treasuries I guess.
People trying to reassess ahead of 2026.
Under surveillance this morning, the
resilient traveler, airlines are in the
midst of a recordbreaking holiday
season. Sat down with American Airlines
CEO Robert Isam, and we asked him about
consumer demand. Take a listen.
>> You'll see us uh open up more secondary
cities in Europe. You'll just see us do
more flying into the hubs of our some of
our partner carriers and international
probably outgrow uh what we do from a
domestic perspective, but the two are
connected. And you know, I'm really
pleased with our domestic operation.
We're we're going to always have the
best domestic network. And you know, you
go back, you know, a number of years and
domestic, you know, outperformed uh
international and we're going to be
ready for domestic doing well and
international doing well, premium doing
well, uh and really pleased with where
we're at.
>> You've been working on upgrading the
entire fleet and that's something that's
been really important for you,
especially as you get some of these
premium offerings in place. How much
have some of the slowdowns, supply chain
issues at Boeing and Airbus hampered
that ability to really retrofit some of
the uh the fleet?
>> Well, where we stand today, we have the
youngest fleet in the industry. We we
made a tremendous investment uh from
about 2014 to to about 2020 and we
bought on well over $30 billion of of
new aircraft. So, we have the youngest
fleet in the business right now. But on
top of, you know, new deliveries that
we're taking, we don't have any
retirements planned. Uh so we're
reconfiguring our trip 77 300s and our
trip 7200s. We're putting flagship
suites on those. Uh even domestically
we're doing uh work on our 320s and
319s, but we still depend on new
deliveries. And from that perspective,
you know, we have a lot of dependence on
Airbus to deliver the 321 XLRs, Boeing
to to continue to deliver the Max 8s and
hopefully be ready to deliver the Max
10s that we have on order in 2028. Um,
right now my my only push to the OEMs is
deliver on time, deliver a quality
product, stick to it before you ramp up.
Let's make sure we can do what uh, you
know, you're you're you're on the books
to deliver. Now,
>> just taking a step back in the airline
industry more broadly, there's been this
huge uh focus on the supreme product,
the the luxury product, and I wonder
what you see in terms of bookings next
year, whether it really is the premium
product that's continuing to lead and
the robustness that you see there while
other things fall off. Is it bifurcated
in terms of the bookings and the demand
or do you see a wholesale sort of
rejuvenation in the interest in travel
and ability to spend and pay the prices
that actually are there?
>> Well, I'll I'll just start with this.
Demand is has been, you know, resilient,
right? every time there's cold water
cold water poured on the the the the
environment, it seems like, you know,
travelers want to come back as evidenced
by, you know, bookings for the holiday
season and as we take a look into into
the fourth first quarter of of next
year. I have confidence though that, you
know, overall people want to travel. And
in that in people wanting to travel, I
also think that, you know, whether
you're more uh uh economy focused and
budget-minded or you're premium
services, everybody wants more.
Everybody wants better control.
Everybody wants more comfort. So, I
don't think that there is going to be
any going back in terms of offering
product at any level of of the the
spectrum of offerings. But for us as we
go forward, you'll see us with our lie
flat seat offering. Uh that's going to
grow by 50% over the next few years.
Premium seating 20% over the over the
next few years. Uh whether you're a
business traveler who's who've always
wanted, you know, more of that, you
know, comfort and ease of of of touch or
you're a leisure traveler, there's much
more of a demand to really have a better
experience.
>> That was American Airlines CEO Robert
Isam earlier this month. And joining us
uh over the weekend has been a number of
people who could not get where they
wanted to do. Airlines ran into some
challenges o over the weekend as winter
weather led to cancellation of more than
1500 flights. Savvy Sith of Raymond
James was delayed. She is now on the
phone. She did write though earlier. We
estimated each canceled flight typically
costs airlines 40 to $65,000 in lost re
revenue and incremental costs. Savvy who
was on one of those canceled flights
joins us now by phone. Savvy, is this
typical of the winter season? Is this
something that is surmountable given the
difficulties that airlines have had so
far this year?
>> Hey, good morning, Lisa. Yes, I was
doing some deep research here in
Detroit, but um you know, this is
typical. You know, we always kind of
plan uh for uh winter disruptions. The
nice thing about winter at least is that
you see it coming and you can plan a
little bit ahead. U but there's always
disruptions. I think the good news is if
you look at uh how the cancellations are
going, most airlines are recovering
fairly well. Um you know, it doesn't
help uh travelers that are stranded or
get their travels delayed, but but
airlines are recovering fairly well, and
that's good news. And you're not seeing
any meltdown so far.
>> So, how bad is it this year compared to
last year and the year before? And how
do you factor that into your um earnings
estimates?
>> Yeah, so this year it's interesting.
There are some airlines like JetBlue uh
that are seeing uh kind of fairly
elevated levels of cancellations and and
higher than last year. Delta more
recently with this weekend uh weather
hit in the Northeast and the Midwest is
starting to see a little bit of pickup.
Um and so slightly up year, but there's
interesting ones like American that's
actually seeing fewer cancellations this
year than last year. So it really does
vary across airlines and for the most
part I think investors look past some of
these kind of weather related events.
Um, and we'll be focused on just how
demand is holding up as we look into one
Q uh in in 2026.
>> Are there airlines, Savvi, that that
deal with it better um than others? Are
there airlines that make consumer uh the
consumer experience better than others
or are they all awful?
>> Um, what I would say is this year we've
seen everybody handle it fairly well. Um
you know there are some airlines uh like
Delta or Allegant where you know they
they do kind of compensate uh passengers
better. Um but again I think for from
for passengers it's it's less about
compensation and more about how quickly
they're able to recover. And
unfortunately during the holiday season
you know aircraft planes are packed it's
really hard to reaccommodate passengers
very quickly. Um but again going back to
the fact that the recovery from these
cancellations seem to be fairly quick
that that's a good sign for travelers
and and we're seeing it across the board
from most of the US airlines. So it's a
good sign overall.
>> Savvy Sith, we wish you luck getting to
where you need to go. Savvy Sith of
Raymond James, thank you so much. It is
usually a pretty miserable experience
certainly if you ever get canceled. Have
you ever gotten canceled? Uh yeah, but
travel in general, I mean, if you're
flying in luggage luggage class, it's
horrible no matter [music] which airline
you're on.
>> Well, if you want to make it more fun,
add some young children. That's what
I've heard. I think that that always
makes it a lot more fun. Coming up next
hour, we've got Jay Pilowski of TTPW
[music]
Advisory, Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory
Group, and Veronica Clark of Cityroup as
we do look ahead to Fed Meeting Minutes
as well as jobless claims from New York.
[music] This is Blue Brook Surveillance.
Good morning.
Next year you have the hallmarks of
potentially pretty exciting year.
>> Balanced portfolios make a lot of sense
heading into 2026. Setting this up for a
year where you're going to see a lot of
churning but have moderate returns. We
see a huge amount of appreciation across
the AI names. There's a question of
which ones and how long can that run
for. Respect the trend, but don't ignore
the risks as we go into 2026.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks marching toward new
records, but selling out just a bit.
Although traders are betting on stimulus
and growth in 2026. Prices of gold and
silver dipping after parabolic rallies.
Copper, meanwhile, [music] surging on
realworld demand and a focus on the
consumer during the shopping and
traveling season with economists looking
to January for a cleaner read on
economic growth. Matt Miller in the hot
seat alongside me. And Matt, it does
seem like people are looking to get a
cleaner read in January. Nonetheless, we
do get some signs today from the meeting
minutes uh coming out tomorrow as well
as jobless claims on Wednesday. Yeah, I
mean uh we'll get a little bit uh now
and jobless claims [music] I'm going to
say they'll be between 210 and 230
but no we've had such messy data right
the inflation data I find difficult to
believe although maybe I'm wrong the
growth data also was incredibly strong
and but very backwardlooking so [music]
we we need more
>> and it seems like right now a lot of
people are counting on the Fed as well
as potentially the one big beautiful
bill in the stimulus checks that people
get in the form of tax breaks come early
next year to really fuel this rally and
needing it to broaden out because right
now what we have seen so far in 2025 is
something of a repeat some from what
we've seen over the past couple of years
which is the dominance of tech names
starting to shift though the narrative
just slightly around the edges.
>> Yeah, you're starting to see uh a
slowdown in although still incredible
growth [music]
mag 7 earnings and a little bit of
catchup hopefully for the S&P 493. Yeah,
at the same time you're wondering how
much this is a debasement trade, how
much this is just the real world. How
much the precious metals are giving a
sign or whether this is simply uh just
an aspect of this particular rally and
is one of the new hot spots. Right now
you're seeing copper join that rally up
almost 2% in pre-market trading. It had
been up almost 6%. It just raises this
question especially as you see stocks
off by about a quarter of a percent. You
see a bid into bonds. Is this a haven
trade? Is this [music] to talk about
some sort of reaceleration of
industrials? I mean, a lot of question
marks around this one.
>> Yeah, there are. And it's also going to
be very light trading. I mean, you and I
are at work, but many people are not
this way. [music]
>> And uh then you tend to see some swings
or moves that don't necessarily make a
lot of sense. I have faith that [music]
Santa will come.
>> Oh, is that right? You're still waiting
for Santa?
>> Yes. I mean,
>> we've had a couple of good days last
week and we could have some good days
this week. I think um because there are
so many bulls in this market, we've got
to be up by January 3rd.
>> You heard it here first uh from Matt
Miller who's still waiting for Santa
Claus. Coming up this hour, we've got
Jay Pilowski of TPW Advisory with stocks
trading near all-time highs. Danny
Telsey of Telsey Advisory Group breaking
down the retail sector. and Veronica
Clark of Cityroup expecting unemployment
to tick up in December and we get those
numbers in January. We begin with this
hour with stocks edging lower with
precious metals turning rather volatile
as Matt was saying not a lot of people
out there so maybe that's part of the
issue. Jay Pelosi of TPW advisory
writing we think next year might be the
year where the downside of a smaller US
trade deficit manifests in a weaker US
dollar. A weak dollar should support
commodities. Jay joins us now. Jay,
thank you so much for being with us.
Happy holidays. Let's start with that. I
think it's a really important point.
This idea that what we're seeing in
commodities has to do more maybe with
the dollar than it does with some sort
of broad-based industrial demand. Can
you explain?
>> Thanks, Lisa, and great to be with you
and Matt. And I wasn't planning on
working until I got the invite to come
with on and be with you folks this
morning. So, uh I agree with you, Matt.
But to your point, Lisa, I think people
have kind of uh abandoned the idea that
the tariffs would have a big impact on
markets. And so I think it could be a
surprise. When we think of risks for
next year cuz we are pretty
constructive. Um when we think of risks,
we worry about uh higher inflation
driven by the fact that we have to
restock now fully tariffed goods and
then the idea that we have a smaller US
trade deficit which leads to less money
being available uh to come back into the
US from foreigners and buy US treasuries
which could suggest that maybe we have
further backup in long rates and the
combination of those two things I think
is what could uh challenge equities at
some point in US equities in particular
at some point in 2026. Namely rates
going to a level on the long end that
worry growth investors and put a cap on
the upside of US equities.
>> Why haven't we seen this so far, Jay? I
mean, this is something that people have
been talking about all year that what
we've seen in the metals uh space really
is a debasement trade of the US dollar
and yet we've seen the best returns for
US treasuries going back to 2017. Can
you square that circle?
>> Yeah, I mean treasuries, okay, they've
had the best year since 2017, but
they're up about 6%. So, uh we don't
really pay much attention to that. uh we
believe that commodities have a real uh
valid reason for uh their performance
over the past year and we think that
performance is going to continue and
that is the fact very simply that
digital eats the physical right so we
all talk about AI without physical
without silicon without copper without
water without aluminum you don't have
any AI so we have been uh and remain
bullish on the uh miners uh we've had a
position in copper miners all year. We
hold that position. We think it's going
to continue to do well and we're also
very constructive about energy uh
particularly oil which is a which is a
segment of the market that people don't
like. So we like things that people are
already invested in as well as things
that people have yet to cotton on to.
>> Hey Jay, how do uh commodities play into
equity rally expectations? I mean, if we
have a continued rise in the BCOM and if
oil actually gets a bid, how does that
work into, you know, the bullish
forecast for equities next year?
>> Yeah. Well, Matt, you know, the thing,
you know, the thing that really counts
for equities is earnings, right? And so,
for all the talk about uncertain data
and questionable data, market doesn't
care about that. The market cares about
earnings and earnings have been good and
earnings are forecast to continue to be
good. Look, we we are running the US
economy hot. We are stimulating in China
to defeat deflation. We are stimulating
in Europe to build up defenses. And so
there's there's a lot of fiscal spending
going on. We're still in a global rate
cutting environment. Uh these are the
things that support commodities and they
also support emerging markets. We think
2025 is going to go into the record
books as year one of uh the first year
of a significant shift in global equity
leadership away from the US to the rest
of the world. EM equities outperformed
the S&P. They doubled the S&P. They're
up 32% year-to date. And for the first
time in my memory, really going back to
the beginning of the EM age, uh, EM have
better fundamentals, better macro
fundamentals than DM. They have better
growth, lower inflation, lower debt
levels. And so we think and and by the
way, uh, expected to have better
earnings growth than the US both in 2026
and in 2027. So we think we are at the
early stages of a significant multi-year
period of EM and non US equity
outperformance. We pair that with the
commodity side. We're deeply underweight
fixed income and that's really been the
setup for us for about 18 months. It's
worked out well and we think it's going
to continue to work out well. We are at
the beginning of big moves in EM equity
and commodities.
>> So you like EM. What about EU? because
it's been shocking to see the gains even
in local currency, right? The DAX up uh
22 23%, the IBEX in Madrid up like 50%.
Um, and if you're a dollar investor,
it's been even better. Does that
continue? Because I don't really see the
drivers there.
>> Well, uh, you know, we've talked about
European banks on this show for many,
many times. Lisa knows for sure. And uh
EUFN is up 60% year-to date, massively
outperforming US banks. And guess what?
The top seven uh European banks trade at
a 60% discount by market cap to the top
seven US banks. Again, just an
illustration of of how much room we have
to go. The US outperformed for 15 years.
And so there's just massive gaps in
terms of valuation, in terms of relative
upside. And for the first time, Europe
is actually doing things because we're
making them in the US under this
administration doing things to control
their own fate. And you talk about how
the European markets have done. Here's a
really interesting stat. For a
Eurobbased investor, the S&P is up less
than 3% this year. Okay? And this is why
we think that that the flow into US
assets is going to start to reverse.
People talk about US exceptionalism. We
think it's coming to an end. As I said,
EM has better fundamentals. And so
there's an opportunity we think in
Europe and in Japan, but our preference
is where we're most heavily overweighted
is in uh emerging markets, both in
China, very bullish China. And again,
Lisa knows we've been bullish all year.
massively outperform the S&P and we're
very bullish Latin America and in
particular uh Brazil. We think Brazil is
setting up to have a major rate cutting
cycle uh and we like Latin America uh
quite a bit.
>> Yeah, Jay, I was going to ask you about
China since I know you have been bullish
all year and you have done well with
that particular trade. How much is this
a tactical trade and how much is this a
structural trade where you think that
China is essentially going to win the AI
war?
>> Yes. Um uh all the above, Lisa. Um we
think there there's really three reasons
to be constructive on China. Uh the
first is that China's fighting to defeat
deflation and as it succeeds and we
think it will um that's going to be very
constructive for corporate earnings
growth. Uh the second is that we think
there's a reproach mont going on between
the US and China under this
administration. And we wrote our whole
monthly about it up on Substack. Trump
embraces the tripolar world. And so that
raproach mont when Trump visits uh China
in the spring we think will include a
signal for US investors to buy Chinese
equities. And for the most part, US
investors have not particularly
institutional have not been active in
China equities for since the first Trump
term. And then the third and most
important is what you brought up about
AI. We [clears throat] think very simply
that China's lead in electricity and
generating electric power and its
opensource AI is a combination that's
going to be more successful globally
than the US combination of fossil fuels
and closed source AI. We really think
it's the uh quantity of electrons are
more important than the quality of
semiconductor chips. And this is again
why we think Chinese uh tech is so
compelling. It trades at about a 50%
discount to the US. It's completely uh
owning the China tech stack. China has
made the decision in large part because
the US has forced it to make the
decision that it's going to develop its
own tech stack. It's well on its way to
doing so. And the open-source model
allows China to embed AI into the
physical. So, it's called embodied AI.
It's the digital AI plus the physical
robotics and it's leading to uh autonomy
and the focus on autonomous vehicles and
autonomous systems. And that's where we
think the real uh story is going to be
in 2026 and 2027.
And China is uh way ahead of the US on
this front.
>> Jay Pilowski, thank you so much for
being with us and for taking a break to
of your break to join us. Jay Pollski of
TPW Advisory. Uh we appreciate you
joining us. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your brief with Yhierra Anna and Yahara.
Hi Lisa. [music]
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu meeting with US President
Donald Trump at Mara Lago today to
discuss issues in the Middle East,
including Gaza and Iran. [music]
The meeting comes as tensions between
the two leaders have increased with
Trump having previously warned Israel
against taking actions [music] that
could undermine his peace efforts and
Netanyahu facing political pressure at
home to take a tough stance on Gaza and
Hamas. Meanwhile, Chip Wilson, the
founder of Lululemon, is launching a
proxy fight to remake the company's
board. The Wall Street Journal reporting
Wilson has nominated three director
candidates. [music]
Wilson reportedly does not believe
Lululemon shareholders will trust any
CEO picked by the current board and is
aiming to change the board before
executive [music] decisions are made.
And a winter storm is sweeping across
the US with a mixture of snow, ice rain,
[music] and strong winds. is the
National Weather Service warning of
white out conditions and even possible
blizzard conditions in the [music] upper
Midwest. The storm is expected to
produce freezing rain in New England,
thunderstorms across the eastern US and
South, [music] and widespread strong
winds over the next 48 hours. Stay home
if you can. Got your Bloomberg rink,
[music] Lisa.
>> Sounds like a lot of fun. Thank you so
much, Yahara. Up next, the morning
calls, plus Dana Telsey of Telsey
Advisory Group with what to watch for in
the retail sector next year. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
It really is a show me story in 2026
[music] as to whether or not the equal
weight S&P 500 can deliver on what are
[music] some pretty high expectations
for earnings growth next year. A lot is
riding on this idea of EPS [music]
delivering. And of course that will be a
show me story as we move through the
year to see if there is upside to those
numbers or if yet again we'll be in an
environment where mag 7 gets revised
higher [music] and equal weight gets
revised lower. That was Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth. As everyone looks to
that broadening out trade right now in
markets on the margins, I guess that uh
the Russell 2000 is performing less
badly, but not really. It still has
clawed down to meet up with the S&P,
lower by about a quarter of a percent,
dragged down as the session grows older.
The NASDAQ uh lower by almost a half a
percent in early market trading. Time
now for the morning calls. First up,
Stifel reiterating its buy on Nvidia,
believing its deal with Grock can extend
AI infrastructure leadership. Next up,
JP Morgan lowering its price target and
KB home to $50, [music] expecting a weak
fiscal return next year, those shares
lower by about a tenth of a percent. And
finally, Truest lowering its target on
Veil Resorts to $234 [music] uh dollars,
highlighting a lack of snowfall at its
Colorado and Utah resorts. Those shares
up by about a tenth of a percent. The
snow hit the east coast this year, not
the west coast for everybody who
traveled out there for wonderful moguls
and such. Let's stick with the consumer
as focus shifts toward the new year.
Data Telsey of a Telsey advisory group
writing, [music] "Heading into 2026, we
expect events higher uh reef tax refunds
and more accommodative interest rates to
drive a continued recovery in
discretionary spending, especially among
younger consumers." Dana joins us now in
person. Thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thank you for having me. It's wonderful
to get your insights as we all uh look
at our gifts from the holidays, decide
which ones we need to return. What's
your read on how well this season really
did perform for retailers broadly across
the sphere? I think holiday season was
solid. I think those increases 3.9 4.2%
very much in line with expectations.
These 10 days after Christmas are very
important too, whether for returns, for
gift card redemptions, all very
important to see what it looks like. But
the product newness drove demand and
with the K-shaped economy that we have,
you're definitely seeing at the higher
end and the lower end looking for value.
And that's where you saw some of the
traffic. Whether it's the Walmarts,
whether it's the TJXs, they were there
the last 10 days before Christmas as
always is where you got the real bump up
in terms of topline.
>> I'm fascinated by the uh bifurcation
between Walmart and Target. um because I
had seen them previously in kind of the
same uh box, but Walmart has done so
well this year and Target has
disappointed. Why?
>> I think overall what you've seen from
Walmart and Target, Target store
standards have fallen. You haven't seen
the same innovation and product newness.
You haven't seen the same forward
momentum of movement particularly with
technology where Walmart is anticipating
what the customer needs and they really
have modernized their whole store
format. The Walmart of today is not the
Walmart of five or even 10 years ago.
>> If we see uh a K-shaped economy, um do
we get Dollar Tree uh you know these
Family Dollar kind of uh discount stores
doing well? Because if I look at the
stock performance, I don't see Dollar
Tree uh taking off.
>> I think overall you will see those
dollar stores perform. Keep in mind that
in 2025 the focus on tariffs, who
imports goods from China was impactful
certainly to the dollar stores and now
lapping tariffs should be a benefit to
them over time. Who you saw as share
gainers? It was all the off-pricers. I
mean whether it was Burlington, Ross
stores or TJ Maxx with the
diversification of the assortment that
they have, they captured customers.
What's fascinating to me is you're
talking about how this was a solid
holiday season and yet we're talking
about a bankruptcy potentially at the
end of this month of one of the biggest
retailers of Sakfth Avenue which it
faces more than hundred billion dollars
of a debt payment. A lot of people are
wondering whether that will actually
happen. Can you square this story? The
idea that we're talking about robust
sales, a steady consumer, albeit picky
or choosy or whatever you want to say,
at the same time that we could see a
bankruptcy of one of the biggest
retailers out there. Well, when you
think of who's gaining share from that,
you look at the new brands that both
Bloomingdales and Nordstrom are putting
on their shelves, stocking in their
stores, they're gaining share. Just
across the street on 59th Street,
Bloomingdales just opened, a new
extension to their fourth floor with
newer brands. Whether it's Victoria
Beckham, whether it's Valentino, Totem,
they have a whole new assortment of
goods out there that frankly perhaps if
not for this change, you would not see
those brands in Bloomingdales. and
you're seeing it in Bloomingdales and in
Nordstrom.
>> How much is this a pattern that you
expect to be repeated that we're going
to see uh wholesale bankruptcies of some
retailers that are not keeping up with
new product while others I'm thinking of
Walmart or I'm thinking of Bloomingdales
continue to gain share sort of the the
big get bigger can invest in technology
and you see wholesale bankruptcies on
the other side. Financial leverage is
very important in order to keep the
operations of a retailer running
smoothly. You get into trouble with
financial leverage. That's that's an
issue. It always takes a lot to kill a
retailer. They don't just die overnight.
Take a look for example at Blockbuster
from many years ago. And certainly we'll
have to see what happens with that debt
payment of Sachs that's coming to very
shortly. But certainly when one is weak,
others can gain strength. And that's
what you're seeing in Bloomingdales and
Nordstrom.
>> We talk about Blooming Dales. Obviously,
it's a great store. It's an iconic
department store across the street here,
but um it's owned by Macy's and that
stock is down 30% this year. What's
Macy's doing wrong that it's
Bloomingdales is doing right?
>> I think overall the bold new chapter
strategy that the CEO of Macy's, Tony
Spring, has put in place, they're making
advancements and you're seeing some
change in Macy's also. You look this
year at Macy's and what they've done,
whether it's backstage with the off
price in their assortment, whether it's
what they're doing with luxury, whether
it's what they're doing with their own
brands and frankly the store experience,
the investments that they've made into
the top 125, 150 stores is outperforming
the core. And I think you're going to
continue to see the assessment of the
footprint of Macy's continue to be
architected towards their best
performing stores over time.
>> So, you like Macy's. I mean, is this a
buying opportunity then this dip?
>> I think Macy's is an opportunity. I
think when you think about next year and
you frankly think about the enhancements
that they've made to assortment both in
Macy's and Bloomingdales, it's not
expensive for where it is and you look
at the landscape of department stores
that are public companies. It's Macy's,
Kohl's, and Dillards. Macy's has an
opportunity on valuation to move higher.
>> Dana, do you think that early next year
we're going to see pretty big price
increases across the board for retail
goods? You're going to see more price
increases coming, but keep in mind this
innovation and newness that we have. You
don't have a comparative, so we'll have
to see what those prices look like.
Consumers are cautious and discerning,
but they'll buy what they don't have.
>> Dana Telsey, wonderful to you. Thank you
so much for being with us today. Happy
New Year. Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory
Group. And just want to bring this to
you. Evidently, digital bridge group
shares have been halted due to news
pending. And Matt, this comes with the
reports that potentially SoftBank is in
discussions to buy this company.
>> Yeah, that's right. Bloomberg News
reporting according to people familiar
um that we could get a an announcement
as soon as this morning um a more than
$7 billion purchase from SoftBank. Of
course, that's almost uh exactly what
Masayoshi's son got when he sold his
Nvidia stake. So, he said he cried tears
at that loss, but now I guess um he'll
find some joy in buying Digital Bridge,
which interestingly enough, this used to
be Colony Capital, right? This was Tom
Bareric's shop uh taken over by Mark
Gany [music] after Tom bought Mark's
business.
>> More on that coming up. Tears of sadness
turning into [music] tears of joy, as
Matt poetically put. Coming up,
legendary investor and Bergkshire
Hathway CEO Warren Buffett is retiring
at the end of the year. We'll take a
look back at how he changed investing
[music] forever. From New York, this is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Well, a soggy day. I know that Matt is
hoping for Santa to come back and steal
the day. Right now, not happening. What
we are seeing is a little bit of
softness. Down 310 of a percent now on
S&P futures, grinding lower as the
session grows older and bringing along
the Russell 2000 as well as the NASDAQ.
Although the day is young and there
aren't that many people at work as Matt
Miller has mentioned also several times.
Uh euro gaining just a touch, losing
just a touch versus the dollar. The
dollar gaining a little bit 11763
[music]
a bit into bonds although less than
earlier down one basis point for one two
412% uh when you round up and copper now
up more than 2% after a rip roaring uh
rally. Focus very much on deals this
morning. One hour away from the cash
open. Guy Johnson has some really
interesting morning movers. Guy, over to
you.
>> Really interesting. Father Christmas
definitely coming, Lisa. Uh, for Digital
Bridge group shareholders. Looks like
the stock is now halted. Looks like we
are going to get some news this morning.
Uh, this was on a report that we heard
earlier about the fact that there was
advanced talks between SoftBank and
Digital Bridge, which is a private
equity company based out of New York,
based out of Bokh, based out of LA. It
does data centers. As Matt was saying a
little bit earlier on, remember that
Soft Bank sold out of Nvidia to fund
these kinds of acquisitions. We're now
starting to see evidence of that and the
stock is up really strongly halted. As I
say, we'll wait for that news maybe to
come out a little bit later on in the
morning, but the stock certainly popping
on the back of that for one group of
shareholders. Santa Claus is still very
much in action. Let's talk about some of
the other metals. You were mentioning
copper just a moment ago, Lisa. Let's
talk about silver. We've talked about
some of the silver stocks. [music] Look,
I think you're going to see some
volatility around some of these names.
Uh this is majestic uh first majestic
silver. You you're getting this in other
stocks as well this morning. You're
getting in some of the gold names too.
Uh the stock is down by 4 point 4.3.
What you've had is a big move up in
silver. We're now down let's call it
circa 5% on silver this morning. It
looks like the correlation between
obviously what is happening in the
physical market and what is happening in
terms of the uh the movers in some of
these stocks is pretty well aligned and
you're getting a big drop this morning
[music] in some of these silver stocks,
some of the gold names. some of these
stories represented around the world.
And as it is the season for Stretchy
Pants, I thought we we'd finish with
Lululemon. Um Chip Wilson, founder of
Lululemon, launching a proxy fight. He
wants to get a few seats on the board.
He's looking for three, I think. Uh this
is a Wall Street Journal story that's
been reported in the last few minutes.
The stock's not moving much on the back
of it. We're down by around 2/10 of 1%.
But after Christmas, Lululemon feels
like an appropriate stock maybe that we
should be looking at. Lisa, back to you,
>> guy. Thank you so much. Although some
would argue uh that stretchy pants are
always in fashion that maybe they should
be used for other purposes as well.
Meanwhile, I did want to mention this
because as Guy was talking, we did get
some breaking news that uh digital group
will be acquired by SoftBank for $4
billion. This is a 15% premium from
where it closed on December 26th. Uh
Digital Bridge will continue to be uh
separately managed and will operate as a
separately managed company. uh they are
going to be bought for $16 per share in
cash. This according to a statement and
we will wait for those shares to start
trading once again, but largely
expected. Matt, uh as we were reporting,
Bloomberg reported speaking to people
familiar with the matter. This was the
plan possibly with that that cash that
Masoshi Sun got from selling his Nvidia
shares.
>> Yeah, that's right. He got uh I just
went back and looked $5.83 83 billion
for selling his uh shares in Nvidia. He
said he said that he actually cried when
he made that sale. Um and now he's going
to use almost all of that money for
Digital Bridge. Although um it's
interesting, you know, Digital Bridge
shares in the pre-market were up at
1.54%.
So, this uh 15% premium is going to be a
disappointment uh to some of the
speculators that were active in the
pre-market this morning.
>> Well, we will check back when the shares
are uh resume trading once more. In the
meantime, we wanted to take a look back
at one of the most legendaries
investors. Birkshire Hathaway CEO Warren
Buffett is retiring at the end of this
year. Here's how the Oracle of Omaha
changed investing forever and what's at
next for the company he built.
>> If investors had a Hall of Fame, Warren
Buffett would occupy his own wing.
[music]
>> People from all over the planet look up
to him, read his biography, hop on a
plane to go see him talk.
>> He took a failing textile mill and
turned it [music] into a trillion dollar
conglomerate. as insurance companies,
Dairy Queen, railroads,
and energy businesses.
>> For decades, Buffett's [music]
investment savvy has led Berkshire
Hathaway to beat benchmarks.
>> One of the biggest asset managers today,
[music] which is Vanguard. The entire
philosophy is no one's really going to
be able to beat the market, so you might
as well not even try. Well, okay, no one
besides Warren Buffett.
>> If you look at the total returns,
Berkshire blows the S&P [music] 500
away.
>> The legendary investor Warren Buffett.
So when the 95-year-old announced he
would retire at the end of 2025, [music]
>> Greg should become the chief executive
officer of the company.
>> It marked [music] the end of an era at
Berkshire Hathaway and left everyone
with one massive question.
Warren Buffett is one of the richest
people [music] on earth, but his
lifestyle doesn't exactly scream it. He
lives in Omaha. He lives in the same
house he's lived for many, many years.
>> I have a sausage muffin with
>> He goes to McDonald's in Omaha. A lot of
people around the city know him.
>> He's paid just 100k and has been paid
that amount [music] for years. That's
very refreshing when you think about the
landscape today.
>> So, what's the backstory? While
Buffett's childhood fascination with
money led him to Colombia Business
School, [music] where he studied under a
renowned educator,
>> Benjamin Graham was a financial analyst
considered to [music] be the father of
value investing.
>> Value investing is really this idea that
you're not just betting on some fluke in
the market. You're really looking at
what you think it's worth versus what
the value that the market is providing.
Ideally, you want to buy a company that
you think is undervalued and that it's
going to rise in many years. But that
requires a lot of due diligence. [music]
That requires you to make sure you
actually understand how the business
works.
>> I'm not buying them because I think
they're going to go up next year. I'm
buying them because I think they'll be
worth quite a bit more money 10 years or
20 years from now. [music]
>> Investment after investment, that
strategy came to define Berkshire
Hathaway. But let's see it in action by
focusing on just one.
>> American Express is an investment that
he's had for decades. And when he bought
it, the stock price was a bit down
because of a scandal [music] at the
time, but he saw the value of Americans
that kept swiping those AMX all over the
place. That was back in the 1960s. But
look at this. Berkshire's current
[music] AMX holding was largely
assembled here in the 1990s for about
$1.3 billion. [music]
Since then, Buffett's largely left that
core stake intact. But AMX's market
value has soared in the years since,
making his 22% holding worth tens of
billions of dollars. He was interested
because the company has a good moat. By
moat, he means some competitive
advantage against other companies in the
business. For AMX, that moat is a mix of
its premium brand, affluent card
holders, and a network built around
their spending [music] power.
Another kind of edge you can have over
your competitors is [music] regulation.
>> Think about the energy business. A lot
of those have advantages that a
competitor couldn't come in and easily
take the market share. That's really
helped his business sustain itself. He's
built up companies that are not so easy
to replicate.
>> But perhaps the most underappreciated
force behind Berkshire's rise is its
insurance business. They're not always
the companies that are going to draw the
hype from stockholders, but it's
actually been a force that's built up
Berkshire a lot.
>> The insurance business provides us with
float and [music] float is money that we
hold that doesn't belong to us.
>> The way it works is it has a very large
insurance arm that has a lot of money
from policy holders. They have to invest
it to [music] reap some benefits and
make sure that they can pay claims
afterwards. Berkshire Hathaway has been
ramping that up to the max, buying a lot
of insurance companies and using that
money, the float to invest afterwards.
>> This is actually one of the hottest
plays in the investment world right now
with a lot of private equity and
alternative asset managers either buying
or having relationships with insurers.
>> While Buffett has been the face of
Berkshire Hathaway, he long had a
sidekick, both conveniently available as
lovingly hand rendered plushies. [music]
Charlie Munger passed away in 2023, but
the dynamic he had with Buffett for many
years was one of the main draws of
Berkshire. They were a unique pair. If
you saw them sitting together at the
Berkshire [music] annual meeting, they
would banter.
>> I predict Charlie's going to talk about
Costco. Go ahead, Charlie. [laughter]
>> Well, Costco, of course, is a
>> Mer was fundamental to Buffett's
investing thesis. At the start of his
career, Buffett was very into this idea
of cigar butt investing in which you
would take a company, you take one last
puff, and you'd get what you could out
of it before it sort of faltered. And
Charlie was one who really reshaped his
thinking into thinking about companies
that had a longerterm advantage. He went
from buying companies that were, you
know, not very famous like Berkshire
Hathaway, a textile mill that was
struggling to taking stakes into
Coca-Cola or Bank of America.
>> Not that this approach is always a short
thing.
>> One is IBM when he bought his [music] in
the early 2010 he said afterwards that
it was a big mistake. didn't see how IBM
was about to lose the turn of the
industry towards [music] cloud
computing.
>> He also orchestrated the merger of Craft
and Hines about 10 years ago.
>> It just hasn't gone to [music] plan.
Part of that is down to change in
consumer tastes, consumers wanting
healthier things. Part of that is down
[music] to inflation. And Buffett
commented recently that while he didn't
think the merger in hindsight was a
great idea, he doesn't think that
undoing it is going to [music] fix the
company's problems.
>> And lately, Buffett has struggled
finding companies he wants to invest in,
leaving Berkshire with a record amount
of cash.
>> It is so much easier to make very
successful bets when you're managing a h
100red million,200 million. He's now got
a cash pile that's more than $300
billion. and [music] finding a place to
put that capital to work is getting
really difficult. He doesn't like to
have money that is [music] sitting
around and not earning more money.
>> Higher interest rates these past few
years have turned [music] that cash pile
into a nice income generator.
>> But it is going to get harder and harder
to deploy that level of capital [music]
the bigger it gets.
>> So this is the Berkshire Hathaway Greg
Ael is inheriting as the company's new
CEO.
>> [music]
>> Although sadly we don't have a plushy of
him.
>> He led Berkshire's energy business for
so many years. But it is tricky. Warren
Buffett has not only been a very good
investor, but he's also pretty
charismatic. That's part of the reason
that so many investors have always made
that trek to Omaha despite the cost,
despite [music] the distance.
>> Abel will also be taking charge at a
time when Buffett's hallmark strategy is
being tested. It is tough to be a value
investor when what's really lifting the
stock market is high growth companies.
[music] The tech company's valuation
might be really high compared to sort of
what the underlying assets are. While
Buffett has bet on technology [music] in
recent years, his misses on those
opportunities will always sort of
linger.
>> The change in leadership also risks
reviving a long-standing debate.
>> A conglomerate is not a thing that has
stuck around. We've seen many
conglomerates such as GE fall apart in
recent years and sort of be split up.
>> Buffett's presence at Berkshire won't be
disappearing overnight.
>> He'll remain as chairman and I think his
influence will still be felt by the
company. He's a major shareholder of the
firm and while he's slowly devesting
that stake and giving it to his
children's foundations, I think his
legacy will long be felt.
>> But Abel [music] will be taking over
many of his duties, including the
writing of Burkshire's annual letter to
shareholders. This is a big change
because Buffett fans have been pouring
over that letter over the years because
it's full of witisms, [music] investment
advice, thrills of wisdom. There's also
the fact that he's not going to be
taking Q&A at the annual meeting next
May in Omaha.
>> Morning. Welcome to Berkshire Hathaway.
>> He was talking for four to five hours
every year [music] and taking questions
from people that follow him all over the
planet. That is going to be a big change
because Buffett's personality is
unmatched in the [music] investment
world.
>> Shares of Brookshire Hathaway are up
nearly 10% as Warren Buffett wraps up
his final year of CEO of the company. Uh
let's right now let's get get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira Anand. She'll be there in
just one second as we parse through the
uh breaking news [music] of what just
happened with digital bridge. Let's head
over to Yhira right now. Hi Lisa. We
start with Ukrainian President Vladimir
Zalinski saying [music] he asked
President Trump for US security
guarantees lasting as long as 50 years.
Zalinski spoke to reporters after the
two leaders met in Florida yesterday.
Current proposals outline a 15-year
security term with the possibility for
[music] extension. President Donald
Trump says Ukraine and Russia are quote
closer than ever before to a peace deal.
Meanwhile, two helicopters crashed
midair in New Jersey over the weekend.
One person was killed and another was
critically injured, according to
authorities. [music] The FAA saying the
helicopters crashed moments after taking
off from the Hamilton Municipal Airport.
The FAA and NTSB are investigating the
[music] collision.
And in sports, the New England Patriots
have clinched the AFC East after a five
touchdown performance from Drake May,
edging out the Buffalo Bills, who lost
to the Eagles. Elsewhere, the 49ers beat
[music] the Bears in a thrilling matchup
among the NFC's top teams with the
number one seed still up for grabs. And
the Pittsburgh Steelers and Baltimore
Ravens will face off in a winner take
all game next week for the division
title after Pittsburgh lost to Cleveland
13-6. [music]
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. You up next setting
you up for the day ahead. Plus, Veronica
Clark of Croup expecting the
unemployment rate to tick up in December
from New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
In my mind, there's too much fascination
with the Fed. We're not [music] We're a
country, we're a country that's driven
by the private sector. The idea that we
are like hanging on the thread by the
Fed moving rates [music] 25 basis
points, it seems to me we've gotten out
of whack. They're a lender of last
resort. They're there to stabilize
markets and [music] price, but other
than that, you shouldn't know they exist
quite frankly.
>> So, you don't worry about all this, you
know, hand ringing of political
interference with the Fed once that new
position is. The market is a will punish
people if we don't have an independent
Fed and everybody knows that.
>> Is Bank of America CEO Brian Moahan over
the weekend. Right now it seems like the
market is [music] just softening looking
for that Santa Claus rally heading into
year end just about 1% away from that
7,000 mark. Well, you are seeing
softness in S&P futures. You are seeing
a bit of a continued selloff in small
[music] caps. Russell 2000 down 4/10en
of a percent after being flat just a
couple hours ago. NASDAQ down 7/10en of
a percent in the bond space, twos, tens,
and 30s. You are seeing a bid across the
board, including in the 30-year space,
[music] which hasn't seen love this
year, stayed around the same level going
back to earlier. Right now, we're seeing
two-year yields uh at 3.47%
[music] rounded up. That is down from
4.23% at the start of this year. I do
want to just mention Digital Bridge.
[music] Soft Bank has agreed to acquire
the firm for uh $4 billion. It is a 15%
premium [music] to the close on December
26th. Those shares had been up, as Matt
was mentioning, uh more than 50%, now
they are up about 10%. [music]
They have resumed trading. We will get
you an update on that in a bit. Counting
down to the opening bell. Here's your
trading diary for the week ahead. At 1
p.m. Eastern, President Donald Trump,
meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu. Tuesday, ADP
employment data, Fed meeting minutes.
Maybe we'll get some read on the January
meeting. And on Wednesday, we get
jobless claims. Thursday, [music]
everyone is off. Turning to some of the
data we'll get to kick off the new year.
Veronica Clark of City writing, "We
continue to expect another slight
increase in the unemployment rate to
4.7%
in December." Veronica joins us now.
Veronica, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Happy holidays. I'm just wondering from
your perspective, how much the data that
we got earlier this month was actually
valid and that people are discounting it
too much. Yeah, I think there's a lot of
that going on and if we saw the
unemployment rate next Friday, um the
you know the first week back back to
work. Um if we saw that at something
like 4.7, I think people will believe it
a lot more because yeah, there's a lot
of issues with the November October
data. We don't know how much the
government shutdown affected the
measurement of of those months. Um but
December should be relatively clean and
if it stays pretty high, I think that's
a more concerning sign for people.
>> How come this labor market is weak? I
don't get it because um you've got
incredible earnings growth, right? So,
corporate America is doing very well and
>> there are no new people coming into this
country, right? There's no immigration.
The demographics trend like everyone's
old, there are no young people. Like, it
should be uh companies are fighting for
employees.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's been this,
you know, issue of, you know, is it
labor supply, is it labor demand? We've
been dealing with this for a couple
years now. Um, you know, back in 2024
when we saw the unemployment rate
increase, the excuse was also it's more
immigration. Um, I don't think we can
use immigration to explain the bad, you
know, different sides of immigration to
explain bad data. Um, but I think what's
happened is that labor demand has just
weakened more than labor supply and
that's why you've seen the unemployment
rate rising. It's this low hiring, still
low firing dynamic, but I would be
worried that low hiring can only last
for so long before maybe you do see some
layoffs. I mean, is that because uh
technology and AI have made the few
employees that companies hold on to more
productive?
>> I I'm a little hesitant to conclude that
that's what's happening now. Um that
might be part of the story, absolutely
and and we could see, you know, larger
productivity gains from AI longer run,
but this really started a couple years
ago. This really, you know, started
maybe summer of 2023 when we saw this
pullback in and hiring. And I do worry
that, you know, it started in more rate
sensitive sectors like manufacturing,
um, small businesses, the pullback has
really been there. And so, yeah, it
doesn't necessarily matter if, you know,
equities are doing well and earnings are
are fine. Small businesses are going to
be more rate sensitive.
>> Are we bringing manufacturing back? I
thought we were bringing manufacturing
back, right?
>> We have been losing manufacturing jobs,
I think, every month this year. But that
predates this year also. And it is a
rate sensitive sector.
>> Well, this sort of speaks to the
question of is the Fed restrictive? And
this is the big debate. Restrictive for
who? Because on one hand you do see
companies filing for bankruptcy at the
fastest clip going back to to 2020. On
the flip side, you see AI companies
screaming ahead, digital bridge being
purchased for $4 billion at a 15%
premium. So can you square that?
>> Yeah, I mean there's this bifurcation
across all parts of the economy. I think
there's a lot you know that has already
been said about the K-shaped economy for
consumers. You know, higher income
consumers are spending um but we
definitely see that in sectors also and
you know the smaller businesses who are
more rate sensitive. I think rates are
are restrictive here.
>> So you expect a significant number of
rate cuts. Let's just uh postulate that
we do see an increase further in the
unemployment [clears throat] rate to
4.7% as you expect. What does that mean
for January 28th?
>> Yeah, I think they're going to be
cutting.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. So we are penciling in another cut
in January. Um another one in March. Um
and it's just this kind of idea that
you've clearly gotten more concerned on
the labor market side of your mandate if
the unemployment rate is something like
47 that we think we'll we'll see in
December. Um, we will have hopefully
more inflation data by March that we
trust again, you know, early, you know,
2026 data. Um, if you're seeing
inflation slowing and and data that you
believe again, and you're less concerned
on the inflation side of the mandate,
you're more concerned on employment, why
wouldn't you be at the midpoint of
neutral, which would be cuts in January
and March to get you there? The
counterargument is if you get rate cuts,
potentially two by the end of March, at
the same time that you have the one big
beautiful bill, the tax refunds, and
potentially an additional $2,000
stimulus or whatever else might be
coming down the pike,
>> don't you risk reigniting inflation that
never died.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm not so concerned about
that right now. You know, the inflation
driven by lower rates, more stimulative
polic monetary policy, um you'd expect
to see it first in a sector like
housing, and you definitely don't see
that yet. You don't see those signs yet.
Um, home prices have been slowing, new
rents have been slowing a lot. Um, we
already know that in the inflation data,
there is this lag issue of shelter
inflation that's going to, I think, be
slowing all of next year. Um, all of
the, you know, potential fiscal
stimulus, you know, maybe larger tax
refunds, um, the business tax incentives
that were part of the the bill from the
summer. Um, those can help support
growth. Um, but I would worry that the
main determinant of if people are
spending or not is if they have a job
and what their labor income is. Um, and
that we have seen slowing already. You
would think consumption would slow then
too.
>> Veronica Clark, thank you so much for
being here and for holding down the fort
for the economics team at Cityroup.
Veronica Clark of Cityroup uh global
markets. It is going to be interesting
next year on January 8th, I believe,
when we start to get the December data
that people think is actually the clean
data, how much it gut checks or confirms
what we've already seen.
>> Yeah, I'm looking forward. I'm actually
excited to get CPI because the last
reading we got included some zeros from
October. I'm not an economist, so I
don't get why they did that, but
>> it feels to me like uh we're still
looking at inflation that's 50% above
the Fed's 2% target. I haven't
experienced the $2.82
gas prices that we keep hearing about.
Well, maybe you need to travel out west
uh to Iowa or somewhere where there is a
low gas price. Uh what we are going to
be speaking about tomorrow, we do get
some ADP numbers as well as of course
the meeting minutes from the last Fed
meeting. We'll be speaking with Kayla
Seder of State Street, Mark Cabana of
Bank of America Securities, Dana Dorya
of Investnet, and Chris Maher of Ocean
First Financial from New York. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.